pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 11 - December 2001           o
p                               File 11 of 13                                  o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop

my beliefs (tentative title)
by fwaggle

introduction
-=-=-=-=-=-=

it's my own personal beliefs that there is no single entity controlling our
fates. sound like your atypical DALNet/#atheist member? perhaps. i don't
consider myself to be atheist though, as most people don't know the full
definition of the word. right now, i don't know it either, but i had it
explained to me once and it made perfect sense that the majority of people
who call themselves atheists aren't actually atheists - they're something
else. regardless, we're not here to discuss that.

i believe that the only entity governing what happens in our world is us. so
why - try as we might - can't we decide our own fate? well it's my theory that
the world's "timeline" is made up of billions of tiny events all colliding into
each other and influence each other. due to the massive ammounts of calculation
required to predict what's actually going to happen, it's impossible for our
tiny brains to do the math required.

that's basically the outline of my beliefs, so let's expand.

rebuttal of common religions
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

it's my opinion that people should believe in whatever religion, story, or
entity they like in order to get themselves through life in any kind of order.
as long as your religion doesn't intrude on others, and you don't try to force
others into your religion (as many have done with me, honestly i don't think i
will ever "find god" so you really need to give up trying).

i firmly believe that - and this is proven, throughout history - people have
this undying need to understand. what we don't understand, we make up - or
"theorize". this has been proven time and time again. we're also egotistical
enough to think that our theories are the way things work - we used to think
the world is flat! ancient civilizations believed the stars and planets to be
gods - we disproved this and now the very idea is laughable. what's to say
that the beliefs you hold dear won't be disproven in a few millennia.

it has also been proven that magic and religion - faux as they may be - when
used correctly and in an illusionary manner, are excellent tools for
manipulating the general populace. "don't do this or you'll go to hell"
probably had a lot more effect on people's actions 1,000 years ago than "don't
do this or you'll go to jail" has today.

do you really think that the world's kings, queens and emporers held their
religious advisors so close because they were scared of going to hell (or their
religion's equivalent)? more likely in my mind that they did so because
religion is an awesome way to keep their subjects in check. the wrath of a king
in a peasant's mind is nothing compared to the wrath of a god that they've
been told all about by the very same people who oppress them.

jesus and the bible
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

jesus huh? well from my (admittedly very limited) understanding of the bible
and the stories of jesus and his buddies - jesus was basically a religious
renegade. the vapours from manure could have wofted into his nostrils one night
and bestowed upon him a hallucinatory dream - something which it's also been
proven can lead people to believe even the most cracked out things. 

he ran around, recruiting people into his new "religion" and ended up being
persecuted by the majority religion in the same way whackjobs like david
koresh (read: waco, texas) did. not that i'm advocating the actions of david
koresh -OR- the authorities in that situation, but can you see the alarming
similarities? david koresh knew he was going to die and wanted his people to
basically come with him. jesus said it himself that he knew he was going to
die - he was just a little more polite and didn't ask his friends to come
with him.

religious control
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

this - of course - is if jesus even existed. as i've reflected to above, never
underestimate the power of fabrication and the convinced mind. if you can
convince someone whole-heartedly of what you're telling them, then you
basically control them. for instance, the terrorists in the september 11th
attacks on the world trade center. what would motivate these people to hijack
a plane, and drive it straight into a building - killing themselves in the
process?

a single word: religion. those jerkoffs probably whole-heartedly believed
that in doing what they did, they would be favoured on by alah (i believe
that's their god, although i am not sure of the spelling) and get an instant
ticket into heaven (or their equivalent). now if i'm right, those guys were
in for a nasty surprise when they didn't go anywhere - they just died.
personally, i hope it was pretty painful too - considering the number of
people they took with them for something that was essentially pointless,
except to those who controlled them.

hopefully by now you can understand the point i'm trying to make. set aside
your beliefs, and worry about whether or not they are true or false later.
for now, simply take a look at exactly how much your beliefs control YOU. 

back to the calculations thing
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

ahh yes. hopefully by now you have a pretty open mind about your religion -
whatever it may be. i don't want you to have an open mind so that you'll accept
my beliefs. that's definitely NOT the plan. the plan is that if you have an
open mind, you'll get the points that i'm trying to make. if you go back to
believing whatever you believed before, i won't mind one bit. that's your
right, and i'm not about to try and force you into believing something.

now. take for example, this little scenario. you're leaving your home at about
6:30 in the morning. no let's make that exactly 6:32am. as you're walking out
the door, you drop your keys. fumbling for them, you kick them accross the
floor. you take a second to find them in the dark. this means you're leaving
home at precisely 6:34 (after starting your car, letting the heater warm up,
etc).

you're driving down the interstate, at exactly 64mph (the angle of your head,
as well as the distance between the needle and the indicator AND the
inaccuracies of analogue speedometers lead you to believe that you're really
doing 65mph). suddenly, a car swerves in front of you. you jerk accross to
the other lane and SMACK! you plow straight into the front of a mack truck.
you, my friend - are dead.

now think for a minute. if you hadn't dropped your keys and spent two minutes
trying to find them, you would have left home 2 minutes earlier. by my
calculations, you'd be 2.167 (rounded to three decimal places) miles further
down the road when the above incident happened. if you bashed your head on a
table and layed on the floor like an idiot for another few minutes, you would
have been pulling up to find some other bastards car poking out the front of
a big rig and probably calling for an ambulance.

so, why did you drop your keys? did your god make you do that? was it his or
her will? if not, then welcome to my school of beliefs - a hundred billion
little incidents colliding together to from one giant calculation. if he did
knock your keys out of your hand - then what kind of sick fuck is he? what
kind of being - all powerful as god is supposed to be - goes around knocking
people's keys out of their hands so they crash into mack trucks?

i'm sure you don't need another graffic example. 

finale'
-=-=-=-

in closing, i'd really like to think that if you're a religious person, this
text has made you take a look at your beliefs and decide how truly controlling
they are. if you are, and you are deciding to keep your current faith - then i
thank you for reading this and listening to my rant. to be able to read this,
keep your current faith, and not get angered - i applaud you.

if you're about to fire up your email client and abuse me for talking shit
about your religion - don't bother.

thanks for reading, and let's hope i don't drop my keys on the way out.

fwaggle
2001
