pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 11 - December 2001           o
p                               File 2 of 13                                   o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop



                 The Ancient Art of Port Surfing II :by `das<<<`amatier>>>
                          - addition to D0J-06 May/99 by cronus

                             --------- Modem Leaping---------

Ok, this goes out to all the Laim-ASS-Admins at Central Offices that support
Broadband and do not know how to implement security for their clients. To start
off one thing you must know is what Port 23 is. If you do not know what
telneting is or how to implement it , then stop right here. Go educate yourself
on telneting.

Now  to start thing off again what we need is around 10 Host IP address so we
can play with. You can make a list bigger but 10 is more than  you need since
we don't want to spoil ourselves. A great way to get Host IP  address`s is to
Spark up your favorite IRC client, Any will do since we all claim that the one
we use is the best there is. You, know how that goes. Ok after you have your
client up and running we are going to search for channels that will claim they
are Cable or DSL only. I found a lot of cable/dsl users in channels that claim
they are T1 but doesn't mater how you get them.

You can even do /whois *.dsl*  in your client.  Now that you have some users
with cable/dsl, you are going to  spark up your favorite port scanner, again
we all have our favorite so I wont mention any particular one. But, your port
scanner must support scanning sub-nets like xxx.xxx.xxx.1 - xxx.xxx.xxx.254. 

Ok first rule to remember when doing this don't look like a cheesy ass rookie
and start off by scanning the Op`s of the #channel, the first thing you want to
do is !rules or !list like your actually into a Warez  #channel and don't look
obvious. I usually start off on the bottom of the user list. And don't worry
about scanning someone and getting logged on their firewall software. If you
are all you have to do is scan 1 to 1 IP below his IP and one after his IP-254.
Ok what we are scanning for is the basic port 23 which of course is the Telnet.
After doing a few of these you will start noticing that a lot of them have port
23 open and a few other ports but we only need the 23. Ok,  Getting the first
Host IP sucks because this is were your actually going to be  logged. try to
telnet into one of the modems you got port 23 open on. When it comes up
sometimes your automatically in. sometimes just hit enter and a login prompt
appears. Sometime you have to type login administrator and <enter> password:
<enter> you will be surprised how many of them have no password. Remember that
the user is always going to be Administrator or Admin, I think it there is no
password  because of the training that these companies got, trying to set up
so many people at one time and are behind with the paper work. who cares any
ways, because when you get your first one now you wont be logged anymore since
you can clear the ARP cache table in this modem once your in, also you can try
to telnet to other modems  if you  get in, this host  modem IP gets logged
not you.  Ok once you in your going to either type <help>, <?> or <show> for
most modems. what to look for is the config, we want to get the make and
model of this modem so we can goto the modem companies website and download a
PDF or something on their command lines for the modems. theirs not much what
you can do but it's the little stuff that is cool. like telneting from the
modem to other places with out you getting logged or trace route from another
location from across the world.

Ok,  lets say some little wanna-be is like nuking the shit out of  you . all
you have to do is log onto a few of these modems and ping -commands  to his
IP address and bamn,  you will see him struggle to stay connected. In his
Firewall he will not see your IP address which is the coolest  part. I don't
recommend doing that, basically you can log on to a modem start the  pinging
someone and just kill the Telnet session and it keeps on pinging the IP
forever or however many times you specifies the pings to be and the packet
size. Some modems are different and you can only ping like max 3 times or so
what to look for is modems with unlimited capabilities. Ok this is not the
only usage for this, mainly what I use them for is to try to Telnet into other
shells from the modem to hide my identity. On major rule to remember is to
clear the ARP cache right before you kill your session what you want to do is
just kill the session after you clear the ARP table because if you log out you
will be logged, logging out. I was really bored one day to see how many modems
I could Telnet threw and I kept going till I ran out IP address, So I talented
to mine. It was cool but useless for that point.  Im not going to tell you
about all the route additions you can make to this cable modem for all the
fun stuff, but you probably will have tons of ideas ounce you learn your way
around a few of these modems and what the command lines and capabilities are.

What ever you do , do not type reboot because it logs your IP as <reboot
command from your IP Addy> and that's not what you need is someone calling up
their Central Office and claim there is a problem with their modem, "Ya its
been rebooting a lot lately", so the technician logs in VIA Telnet and finds
out that there is no password;  fixes that,   looks around little more and
notices that your IP address has been logged in the aRP cache so many minutes
ago and your IP addy is the one that issued the reboot command. Also don't
change the password at all because that's even worse.

since messing with FCC regulates Hardware&Software tampering a Federal
offence. To get right down to it this is a real basic thing but the usage it
near endless.

       Happy Modem Leaping, and don't for get to clear the ARP cache.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
I have seen the future, and have seen the past, and yes our master is
thier.<<<`das`amatier>>>
---------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                               