pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 11 - December 2001           o
p                               File 5 of 13                                   o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop

##### Hacking women's panties ######
##### An evilrabbit howto ##########

Special shout outs to all the boys
in the crew.

"knowledge is power"
#####################################

a foreword.

Before trying any of these plans, please
note that the user who writes this has never
nor promotes the use of such tactics to manipulate
the droping of women's panties.  any
attempts at using these technic's are completly
at your own risk, and the author is not responsible
for any damages that happen.

this is for information purposes only.

#---------A beginners look at women----------------

all a women is, is a man, minus sensibility and
accountability.

this allows for very easy exploiting of their pants
if done properly.

The trick here, is understand that toying with a
person's emotions is not the hardest thing in life
to do.  what the trick is, is confusing emotions,
and leaving reason for the greater emotion to
win out over the lower.
                                           
Take an example.  women tend to date assholes.

we all know this, but no one ever seems to know why.
some of us think that its because they are just aching
for pain.  but in truth its all about the above stated
theory.  The asshole boy presents himself in a manner
that is above and beyond any manner that the female has
run intothus creating an illusion of greatness.  if the
above asshole can keep this ruse for any ammount of time
( depending on the system he is trying to hack ) the panties
will fall rather easy.  Once they have, created this illusion,
its very simple for them to abuse it.  The girl wants to
believe that the guy is great so, in doing this, she will
allow for his faults, because she see's it as lapse in
judgment, OR even better, something that she has done wrong.

if you think back to all your friends who were female, 
everytime asshole did something wrong, she would always
blame herself.  but still be with him.

you are, in terms of hacking.  Exploiting a buffer overflow
confusing the computer into inserting your penis into her
stack overflow.

so how does one set himself up for that.. generally speaking
its really wOMan specific.

#-------- The I love you virus ----------------------------

but as with hacking a system, there are default security flaws
that not all wOMen can protect themselves against.  The largest
known, hardest to cure, and worst virus / trojan a man has is
called the " I love you " virus.  A man says this when he shows
his illusion, she bites for a little bit, and then he pops this in. 

Once said the above stated script will run through the wOMan's
brain constently, she will feel loved, simply because he said it.
Once this is done, the man doesnt have to prove his love, with
the exception of buying them silly girlly shit like jewerly or
flowers, or maybe even going so far as to making her
something on his own.

most girls are happier with the idea that someone loves them,
then if they are actually being loved and treated as such.
by planting this bomb, you have access to all pantie droping
you want.

timing and presentation is key when talking about when to drop
this script.  If launched to soon the wOMan might see the virus
as the lie that it is and drop you like a bad command.  If you
dont approach it right, the same result maybe the case.        

try " we have been friends for a long time, and I realized lately,
that more and more, every day.. I love you" or the use of other
such tactic's like the use of presentation of expensive jewerly,
works well in the forms of flattery.

the use of these aids, along with simply lowering you voice,
talking softer, and acting like what you are saying took alot
of time, will all be key in helping you win over the trojan's
acceptance.

Generally I am not one to use scripts to break into systems.
however throughout my years of existance, this one in particular
seems to be the easiest ot exploit, the hardest to fix, and the
most commonly used tactic.  for a beginner in the world of hacking,
you may want to start it off with use of other such scripts that
use beer as a tactic of pursasion.               

try it out on someone you get drunk, its got a higher form of
acceptance, and maybe easier to test out and find your groove.

#------ syncronizing servers --------

a common technique that is used in hacking is the atttempt of
capturing packets by emulation.  meaning that your trying to be
something your not in order to trick them into getting them to
notice you.

same thing works well in the field of hacking women's pants.
by trying to emulate something thats rather popular, OR depending
on the type of wOMan, the ANTI-Popular popular.
( explained further in the chapter )

to do this is really easy.  Simply get some cash together, 
and go to the gap store on a non busy day.  find some rather
hot girl there, or any girl for that matter seeing that their
sense of design / style must be along that of trends in order
for them to work there, and have her basicly spend your
money for you.

you will need at least 2 weeks of non-rotating clothing in
order to find yourself best in the popular swing of things.
the reason you do this, is because girls, much like computers,
can be tricked into thinking your part of the incrowd or,
one of those cute boys she never thought she could get,
simply by the emulation of that style.

EXTREMLY usefull when done in conjunction with beer, 
in the area of nightclubs.

as stated before, there is an anti-popular popular
that certian boys will emulate to get the panties to drop.   
they do this by trying to port themselves to the crowd style,
even though it is counter that of the common trends.  This is
particulary useful when done in the attempt of theft of gothic,
punk, or skater girls panties.

#-------- Network Awareness -----------------------

One of the key steps in hacking women's panties is network
awareness.  Alot like in hacking real systems you need to scan
the network to see what open ports are for exploiting.  but even more
elementry, is finding out what is on the network to work with.

As a general rule of thumb, ugly girls have hot girls as friends.

this rule is taken from " how to be a player ".

if you treat the ugly woman really nicely.  she will tell all her 
friends that she thinks your a great guy.  This is not as deep as 
hacking the panties outright, but it allows coaxing of the other
networked users in order for easier pantie manipulation in the future.

Basicly, if you treat her nice.  she can do alot of ground work
for you in order to help you basicly authencate with all the other
users in her network ( her friends ).  If you come off as an ass
no one in that network will even bother with you.

another handy trick in networking awareness is using nmap for women.

much like nmap, there are multiple ways of finding out which ports
are open with a wOMan.  We do this, for one reason.  Information.

by knowing what a woman likes and dislikes, we can then better serve
her the information needed for acceptance.  there are some methods that
envolve basic asking questions.  Some girls are into the direct scan.
( just sitting with them and asking questions ) much like a quiz, make sure
you keep logs.  This is important for future exploits.  Even in a general 
scan there are things to be aware of.  Some girls are interested in your 
basic canter, others are into talking somewhat dirty.  If you throw in 
that curve on the conversation by making some what perverted jokes and 
the sorts, you are basicly making her aware of your intrest in cracking 
the panties.  This isn't always the worst thing, because there are alot 
of girls into that.

I would try and keep it on the basic low level scan as a default.  This wont
weed out any options, and it will let you know whats going on. Sometimes it
may be good to do passive scans, that arent traceble back to you. for
instance, you can ask her friends about what she likes, or you can hang 
out with her friends and she's into.  by collecting information this way you 
have done two or three things.  you have first entered into a stage of 
scanning that is very un-noticed by the girls who pants your trying to 
exploit.  so you can pretend your into her things before she even mentions 
them.  ( thus used as tools of hacking panties ). Secondly, you have tipped 
off her friends ( depending on how advanced the scan is) that your interested 
in her.  so that if she ever talks to them, she can let them know that you 
were getting interested in topics pretaining to her.

The third thing, may not be good.  Her friends may pass along information to
her letting her know that you were interested, where she may find your shyness 
in approaching her unappealing.  This is the type of girl who would be more 
interested in the default scanning approach.

#------- System State Awareness -----------------------------


Another key issue is understanding system states, and basic maintence
operations.  by stating this I mean that you need to know where a girl is, 
what she is doing, why she is doing it, and  what it means to her.  
Most people throw themself in some sort of system to govern their lives. 
If you understand this system, you can easily take advantage of things like
depression, hornyness, drunkeness, or even just note the inevitable 
swinging of moods.

A trick to finding this out is the studying of her habitual day to day
patterns. some girls for instance are chatty everywhere they go, some are 
chatty only when your ( or someone she is comfortable with ) is around.  
You need to basicly classify her person type, so that when she deviates 
from this course of operations, you know something has changed.  
By scanning her daily, you should know whats going on in her life, and this
 will help you in evaluating the cause / effect of the above stated change.

Think of it like this.  if a girls ex calls her up, ( and you know this 
because of scanning ), and he tells her that she is really beautiful and 
how he made silly mistakes, then she gets with him and starts droping
her panties for him.  you already have key information there on what 
type of person she is.  ( one worth exploiting, because she is easy to
exploit in the future because she doesnt know how to close ports that 
have been attacked ) She is the type of girl who falls easily into the 
I love you trap, and now you have a good chance in finding the hole you
need, to get to the hole you want.

What else is important here, is watching the after affect.  Sometimes after 
the exploit girls get defensive towards people around them, to try and make 
up for her lack of strong securities. this is a sign that now may not be 
a good time to try your tactics.  Other girls get depressed and then they 
need a shoulder to fall upon. This may be your time to try.

Keep things like this in mind when dealing with hackable systems, and you 
will go far.


#------- Final Apporaching the hack tips -----------------------------

When first hacking, one of the common mistakes is to dick around on the 
network to long.  You need to get in, and get out, as fast and as percise 
as possible.

When entering the system, you need to know what your doing.  You shouldnt
attack a system and not know what your trying to explotit.  You need to 
enter it with a confidence that states that you belong there.  Girls,
respond to that sort of power.

if you show up at a party, and act like your the shit.  girls will reconize
that. not all of them, because how you present yourself is system specific.
Sometimes one of the best ways to attract the hack, is to pay no attention to
the network at all.

Act as though your not there but you are.  be the mystery that the girl wants
to solve. That alone will give you a pre-emptive insite into her system.  
Sometimes its also good to attack the girl who sits in the corner alone for 
half the evening.  approach it as, your alot like her, and your the kinda guy
who wouldnt mind sitting with her and talking ( scanning ) with her.

In essence, you need to port yourself on every occasion in a manner that the
target can read.

If you try to port yourself into a girls life, for something more then 
pantie exploits I dont reccomend using any of the above part of this 
article.  You cant go to the windows server room and expect to see 
reliablity, because Its not there.  You run it because your a lazy bastard, 
and a conformist bitch.  Dont try and make something into something its not.

Basicly, if your reading this, and planning on doing any of it.  dont pussy
foot around.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


I am writing this for a few reasons.  First and foremost I am writing this
article for my general disconcern in the status of the security of women's 
panties. If girls dont get their shit togeather, they will fall a victim to
the worst of men.


                                                                   
                             
                                                      
                                                  
                                  
                                        
                                        
                                                                      
                                                                        
      
                                                      