

  BLIZZARD OF OZ - ISSUE #4 


 Another issue finally done.  Reaper's article got axed for now maybe next time?
 No guest writers this time, i guess i'm just not k-rad enough for the scene.
 Fuckit.  So whats in store?  The real deal on the netscape enterprise hole which
 has been a long time coming,  the social security situation, email tracing with
 ease and the gte lineman interview.  I know I set the release date in feb and its
 the middle of april, it's funny how percocet effects your will to organize.. and
 i've had a real FUCKED UP last couple of months.  If there are any chicks reading 
 this right now I want you to know you are all manipulative evil beings bent on 
 the destruction of mankind and you will never win. ;)  

 CORRECTIONS

 - MCI -

 My favorite long distance network of all time, except for maybe
 the American Roaming Network.. but that's another story altogether.
 So here's the deal, in one of the previous blizzard's I foolishly
 and hastily informed everyone that MCI does not use ANI. BULLSHIT.
 They use ANI2 and they have mad number gathering skillz but not
 every op has the ani display available to them.  In fact out of
 40 calls I made only 31 of them could nail down my number. The 2
 mci ops I spoke to when I wrote that article couldn't identify my
 # either, so it's a hit and miss kindave deal.  I would also like
 to add that 950.1022 is always always always gonna get your number
 the ops they have assigned to that service are very thorough.

- Wicked Witch -

 In the first issue I published a hex dump of an excrypted trojan
 I wrote called wicked witch.  Well I assumed every knew how to 
 recompile that into a com using debug.  Apparently I assumed wrong.
 So here are simple instructions. Run debug type in each line as it 
 appears putting an enter at the end.  Or go get the noware utils and
 follow his simple instructions instead.

- Toilet Bombing -

 It's also just as effective to pour equal parts of limeaway and 
 bleach into the water.  No it won't explode but it does create 
 a toxic gas more powerful than military grade mace.

- Pager Bombing -

 Yea this still works, and now all major paging companies are on
 the online bandwagon.  Most companies have 4 digit pins which are
 easily guessed.  So hit your favorite search engine and look for
 online paging and your set.    




 THE SITE
 
 Mad props to neworder.box.sk for the free webspace.  Thanks to them I never have 
 to look at that ad banner again.  I still dont have a hit counter but I did break
 down and check the webalizer only to find out that the blizzard nabbed almost 
 5000 hits in the last two months.  Either you really hate this zine or you really
 like it.  Either way thanks for checkin' it out. Im outta here.