

  CORPORATE AMERICA THE SOCIAL SECURITY SITUATION


  What is corporate america?  Take a look around the next time you walk into a bank
  or a hospital.  Ride the elevators and take a good long look at who's on this 
  elevator with you.  Here's some fucking schmoe with a striped tie, an drill 
  sargeant inspired haircut with a name badge that says he works for information
  services, which means this clown thinks he's a computer whiz.  More than likely
  the only he knows about computers is what he read in his c.i.s. course information
  book written 3 years ago.  Ask him what he thinks about the possibility that
  every phone call he makes, every keystroke he types, every time he uses his
  platinum visa, his discover, or his american express can be monitored from across
  the globe by any person who wants to know bad enough that they figure out exactly
  how to do it.  Of course he'll say thats impossible, no one could know all that.
  Then tell him that his employer is probably doing all of that to him and he'd just
  tell you your crazy. 

  Which is exactly what his employer wants him to think.  A weak minded employee is
  easy to control.  Not just by his employer but by anyone with the capacity to 
  learn.  


  SO FUCKING WHAT?

  Simple.  These people are the ones that are easiest to target. Target for what??
  9 out of 10 of the people like our little friend on the elevator would probably 
  show you thier license if you asked them what thier picture looked like, pulled 
  out your license and showed them.  They hand you thier license all you have to 
  remember is 9 digits and you have access to 85% of thier electronic presence. 
  Bank account, thier utility services, phone services, all thier information at
  the department of motor vehicles, and a full credit report.  You can resign them
  from thier job over the phone, you can apply for loans and credit cards in thier
  name.  You can even have a license made with your picture on it and thier s.s. #.
  You can pretty much take that person's identity from them.  They have no idea 
  this is possible, they just don't believe it.  Which makes them even more of a 
  target because they would never think that one single person is capable of all
  those things.  

  WHY WOULD I DO SUCH HORRIBLE THINGS?

  Well there are a billion excuses you could say, revenge motives, or maybe you 
  have a neurotic fascination with control because your parents made you come home
  at dark when you were 17 years old.  Or maybe your just like me and you do it
  because you realize that all of these things work together to form one giant 
  database of information about every person on this insignificant ball of clay
  and you can know just as much as the federal bureau of idiots does about any
  person who is a member of corporate america.  And i'm also a real asshole who
  dosen't like to be fucked with by these bozo's just because I can't bring myself
  to dress like they do and kiss my boss's ass for a 38cent raise next quarter.
  More than likely you would just do it to have known that you did it once. The
  reason you should be doing it is to free information.  The above system only
  works by hiding information behind a 9 digit number.  Pretty damn secure, wow
  uncle sam really thought this one out.  Let's give every body a number and 
  make them use that number with thier picture to prove who they are.  Every 
  possible combination of 9 digit #'s can be calculated in about 8 hours on 
  a standard issue p.c. of the future distributed throughout the circuit city's
  and best buy's of america.  Trust me the #'s are in your favor.


  THATS GREAT BUT WHAT DOES THIS HAVE TO DO WITH ME?

  If it could happen to them it could happen to you and there is nothing you can
  do it about.  Once someone has your ssn# you are FUCKED, thats it.  End of story
  they can clamp on like a bulldog and lock thier electronic jaws around you until
  you are jobless and evicted with a suddenly very bad credit history and a very 
  dim future.  Now lets suppose your one of those people that never gives out your
  social under any circumstances to any person.  Well you have to give it up to 
  get phone service and electric.  Guess what else it's really not that hard to
  call up GTE and get them to read it to you right over the phone. Don't believe
  me?  

<ring, ring>

<GTE Chime> 
Operator can I help you?

Yea hi, I need to check on my current phone services.

What's your # sir?

573.581.6666

Okay,  and who am I speaking to.

This is jon q. fuckedintheassbytheman.

Alright jon how can I help you?

Could you tell me if I have Voice Mail installed on my line?

Sure.. one minute.

Sir?  You sure don't would like to add that?

Yes and I would also like to add selective call forwarding.

Okay that has been added the charge will be 9.85 extra per month.
Is there anything else I can help you with?

Well I have a little situation maybe you can help me with.. I had my wallet
stolen by a pickpocket while I was at Walmart today and I don't have any other
record of my ss# around and I never thought to memorize it.  Well I know that
I gave it GTE when I signed up for service so could you read it off to me
please?

Well I'm really not supposed to do that.

I honestly dont have any other way to find out what it is.

Where did you say you worked at sir?

I work at the shitfuck corporation.

What is your full address?

666 satanic drive
hellsville, satanica

alright your # is  487.67.7776

Thank you so much, you have a great day.

Thank you for calling gte and 

<<  C L I C K >>

  That was a modified transcript of a call I made and let me tell you it was too
  easy.  I also called up the electric company who made me fax them a copy of my 
  license.. which if you have adobe photoshop and a quickcam can be made in less
  than 20 minutes.  After I faxed it they faxed me back to a jfax account forwarding
  all faxes to an email address and gave me the social security #.  Pretty scary huh?
  So how can I protect myself?  Thats the fucked up part, you can't.  Every place
  that has your ss# has certain requirements it has to meet before it would give out
  an ss#.  Those requirements are not going to include a public appearence and any
  document they ask for can be forged.

GREAT SO NOW WERE ALL FUCKED

  Not so you just have to get the jump on the situation.  Lucky for you only about 
  3 or 4 percent of america knows how to do this and the majority of those people
  work for the government or other people who pay them to go after specific targets.
  The chances of someone picking up your ss# and waging war on you are phoenomenally
  low.  But it is possible to get enough info about someone from one email header
  to find out thier ss# so don't feel too safe.  

  I WANT TO BE THAT 3%

  Well the best way to learn is the hands on approach so pick out your victim.  
  Get the victim's ss# and address and phone #.  Then call every utility service
  and the phone company in town tell them your name and ask every detail about the
  account you can think of.  It's like infiltrating a giant network of resources
  and your password is the ss#.  It's really easy, it's so easy that after 5 or 6
  tries you'll feel comepletely at home finding out the goods on anybody.  I have
  also included a list of sites that have LOADS of social security #'s on them
  and a few ss# researcher's but I have used them and on my own i came up with 
  more info then they did.  So check these out.


http://www.ai.org/cgi-bin/cji/control.pl        
registry database for sex offenders for the state of
indiana

http://www.glr.com/ssnpub.html
all about ss#'s and public sources

http://www.informus.com/ssnlkup.html       
informus ssn (state and issue date)

http://www.info-sh.com/#SOCIALSECURITY
they look like they have it all but it seems
fishy to me? lots of services offered I have
never used them.

http://kf.knowx.com/infoam.exe?form=pf/search.htm   - 
turn a name into a town - cc's accepted they also
do background checks. pretty good on information 
delivery. kinda pricey.


http://www.wcsu.ctstateu.edu/library/f_I_descriptions.html
really extensive list of government sites that could be
exploited in many ways for ss info.


http://www.factfind.com/public.htm   
pay site. never used.                 


http://www.merlindata.com/                    
public records search.. free demo?? 

http://www.ai.org/cgi-bin/cji/control.pl      
registry database for sex offenders for the state of indiana
actually gives you the ss#.  check it out.

http://www.informus.com/ssnlkup.html      
will tell you the state and issue date for any ss# for free.

 
  IM OUTTA HERE

  So there it is.  The low-down on the social security situation.  I dont care
  how you use this information just be reasonable and don't get caught. I dont
  think they let you read zines in jail and who wants to get fucked in the ass
  by bubba anyway?  Don't email me with questions about getting or using ss#'s
  because i'm not about to answer them.  For all I know your an fbi agent just
  reading this to try to figure out how to catch people like me. Dont forget to
  have fun,  this isnt work remember? 








  

