   _________ SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE TWENTY SEVEN MARCH 2000 __________
  /         \___________________________________________/          \
 /	                      History...                            \
/                        Presented By Frak                           \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
				History...


Throughout the latter part of 1986 and the first weeks of 1987, the 
investigative journalist Duncan Campbell was working on a BBC 
television series to be called Secret Society. Campbell had been a 
thorn in the side of the intelligence establishment for years. His 
articles, usually in the New Statesman magazine, uncovered matters 
ranging from which office blocks in London were used by the agencies 
to allegations of dirty tricks in Northern Ireland. An earlier attempt 
to convict Campbell and one of his sources under the Official Secrets 
Act had failed; this was one of several cases which had prompted the 
Home Office to draw up a new secrets law. 
Campbell discovered that the government planned to build a new 
satellite which would enable GCHQ to eavesdrop on the Soviet Union. He 
believed the plan violated a 1982 government agreement to inform the 
House of Commons Public Accounts Committee of any military project 
costing more than a certain amount. During the course of his filming 
for the Secret Society programme, Campbell questioned former Ministry 
of Defence officials and Robert Sheldon MP, chairman of the Public 
Accounts Committee. Inevitably, word of his inquiries reached 
government, and the Prime Minister decided to act. Nigel Lawson, then 
Chancellor of the Exchequer, recounts in his memoirs that 'the 
government managed to lean on the BBC to ban the programme'. Faced with
the prospect of an injunction, Campbell rushed his research into print 
in the New Statesman of 23 January 1987. The spy satellite, hitherto 
one of Whitehall's most cherished secrets, had become a major story, 
as had its code-name: ZIRCON. 
The Falklands war of 1982 was regarded by most people in the defence 
and intelligence establishments as a textbook example of Britain's 
'special relationship' with the USA in action. The Americans had made 
certain advanced weapons available to the British and had shared vital
intelligence about the location of Argentine ground and naval forces.

In Cheltenham, though, there were people who knew that this assistance
had sometimes required special pleading. The National Security Agency, 
GCHQ's US counterpart, had not achieved global coverage with its 
sigint satellites by 1982. The craft which was in a position to help 
Britain monitor Argentine communications was being used by the Reagan 
administration to eavesdrop on central America, principally El 
Salvador. One of the GCHQ officers who liaised with NSA recalls, 'We 
had to negotiate very hard to get it moved, and then only for limited 
periods.' During these spells of a few hours each, the satellite's 
listening dish was reorientated towards the south Atlantic in order to
help Cheltenham. The NSA did not monitor the downlinked take during 
these periods, asking GCHQ to alert them if there was anything of US 
interest in the transmissions. 
Although GCHQ was grateful for NSA's help, and learnt a good deal from 
the occasional use of its satellite, the senior officers in Cheltenham,
notably the then Director, Brian Tovey, drew certain conclusions. As 
one former GCHQ officer says, 'We can ask the Americans to do things,
but we cannot compel them. There may be targets they don't want to 
cover. The Falklands was a factor here. It brought going it alone back
into fashion.' It was already apparent to GCHQ management that space
represented the future of sigint and that gaining a British foothold
in such technology might be possible, given the Prime Minister's
largesse towards the agencies. 
In 1968 the National Security Agency had launched the first of seven
satellites code-named CANYON. This programme had alerted the US
agencies to the extraordinary possibilities of communications
intelligence-gathering by satellite. CANYON was able to pick off
various types of voice and data traffic from space. It was followed
by a type of satellite initially code-named RHYOLITE and later
AQUACADE. RHYOLITE marked a breakthrough in the sigint world. It could
pick up various types of transmission, but the most important take
came from the microwave telecommunications links which by the 1970s
had been installed across the Soviet Union. Microwave circuits had
been considered highly secure by the Russians because they use a
narrow beam of energy between a transmitter and receiver which have to
be within line of sight. Trying to pick up the microwave transmission
from even a few miles away is pointless. But the parts of the
microwave beam which shoot past the receiver - 'spillage' in sigint
jargon - continue in a straight line up into space. Microwave beams
may also strike the ground in places, bouncing signals straight
upwards. RHYOLITE was placed in a geosynchronous orbit - positioned
24,00 miles from earth with its speed exactly matching the turning of
the globe - and so was able to 'hover' over the Soviet Union. It was
equipped with a large parabolic dish so that the feeble fragments of
microwave energy could be refocused on its receiver. Each microwave
circuit could carry hundreds of conversations. The possibilities of
RHYOLITE were, says one sigint insider, 'mind-blowing'. 

Under the Anglo-Saxon sigint arrangements, GCHQ was a full party to
the product of this satellite. Owen Lewis, then an Army officer
working in sigint and now a communications security consultant in
industry, remembers, 'When RHYOLITE came in, the take was so enormous
that there was no way of handling it. Years of development and
billions of dollars then went into developing systems capable of
handling it.' NSA's response to the explosion of information coming
from space included passing large amounts of it over to GCHQ for
transcription and analysis. The USA developed two types of
geostationary sigint payloads: one descending from RHYOLITE was used
mainly to gather interesting UHF signals such as missile telemetry and
various forms of communications; the other specifically targeted
microwave traffic. Each type required three satellites continuously
in geosynchronous orbit over the Equator to provide global coverage.
The NSA found that the amount of information being picked up from
microwave circuits was so large that it had to be immediately beamed
down to an earth station within line of sight. For two of the three
satellites, this required ground stations outside the USA. 

From 1970 the NSA had built a new constellation of eavesdroppers
initially code-named CHALET and later (after a US newspaper had
published this code word) VORTEX. Two large ground stations were built
to downlink the traffic from the two payloads that could not be run
from the USA. At Menwith Hill in north Yorkshire, hundreds of NSA
staff were involved in an expanded operation believed to be taking
down the product of the CHALET over the Soviet Bloc. At Pine Gap in
Australia they downlinked the product of another 'bird', probably the
one covering China, south-east Asia and parts of the Pacific rim. Even
by the mid-1990s, with a third generation of comint satellites in
orbit in these slots, the NSA has still not found another way to relay
this information; imaging craft, on the other hand, can send pictures
back to the USA via a network of relay satellites. Menwith and Pine
Gap had thus revitalized the UK-USA sigint alliance (to which Canada,
Australia and New Zealand are also partners). 

In January 1985 the space shuttle Discovery is believed to have
deployed the first of a new, improved class of satellite code-named
MAGNUM. This enormous satellite, thought to weigh 2.7 tonnes, was
reportedly a descendant of the RHYOLITE series, designed to intercept
Soviet missile test signals (telemetry) and data-links as well as
microwaves. The cost ($300 million each even in 1985) and complexity
of the project is such that few have been launched. 

Despite Menwith's usefulness to the NSA, GCHQ officers felt that the
quantity of material coming from these new satellites was tilting the
sigint relationship so far in the USA's favour that there was a danger
of the British contribution becoming insignificant. The Director and
senior managers therefore frequently used the need to ensure continued
access to US sigint as an argument in seeking funding for their own
projects. In the 1960s it had been used to get money for GCHQ's
listening post at Bude in Cornwall, placed to allow the interception
of transatlantic telephone calls - which was of great interest to the
NSA. 

One civil servant who sat on the budgetary sessions of the Permanent
Secretaries' committee on the Intelligence Services (PSIS) recalls,
in connection with this GCHQ tactic, that 'the American card was
played quite often. There was always this awkward question of how far
can you pare away the commitment.' For the mandarins, it was often
difficult to know how far the representations of a GCHQ Director in
support of major new projects could be taken at face value. The
one-time PSIS member reveals, 'One didn't feel very confident with
technical matters, but that's always the case. It was like nuclear
weapons, there were no neutral specialists. That is true of
intelligence. The best we could do was prod and see how loud they
squealed.' 

In its daily tasking, GCHQ did the maximum to help the USA. As one
officer remembers, 'The requirements from our friends across the water
often had to be met first under the special relationship. They were
quite clearly the Big Brother. If a suitably-worded request came in
and the only way to meet it was to divert resources from a
low-priority UK target to a "flash" US one, then it was pretty obvious
what would happen. The special relationship was regarded with the
highest possible esteem.' 

Britain also tried to pass on any technological advances to the USA.
During 1986-7 GCHQ installed in some of its signal interception
systems a new software package which provided superior recognition of
key words. It had been developed by a private company, PA Technology,
at its centre near Cambridge, under a substantial GCHQ contract. The
software marked a significant step forward in processing sigint, being
based on a phonetic system of sound recognition superior to anything
previously available. It is believed to have been offered to the NSA,
which said it was impressed but had substantial projects of its own to
develop similar packages. 

By the mid-1980s the inequalities in the GCHQ-NSA relationship led
some to believe that the USA was less than committed to it. Martin
Morland, who left the Chief of Assessments post at the Joint
Intelligence Committee in 1986, says, 'Everything is meant to be
completely shared, but even then the Americans were gradually holding
back a bit. It didn't happen on the central area of Soviet Bloc, but
more where they had particular interests, like Cuba, or where
commercial matters were concerned.' 

One former GCHQ officer suggests that the ratio of US sigint
intercepts of Soviet Bloc traffic to GCHQ ones was running at about
five to one during the mid-1980s. The Director of the NSA between 1985
and 1989 was a tough-talking lieutenant-general, William Odom.
Despite professing himself an Anglophile descended from
seventeenth-century English founding fathers, Odom is brutally frank
about GCHQ and the nature of sigint ties. He said, 'It's a very uneven
relationship, to put it mildly . . . the name of the British game is
to show up with one card and expect to call all the shots.' 

Lieutenant-General Odom suggests that the claims frequently heard in
Whitehall (and often repeated by British interviewees) that GCHQ
remains a world-class player were by the 1980s self-delusion. The
former NSA director notes, 'Technology has changed so much that what
the British brought in World War Two, they do not bring any more.
They had a great tradition for a kind of eccentric cryptanalysis.
Well, today that and seventy-nine cents will only buy you a cup of
coffee at Seven Eleven. Today, this business requires huge investment
and Britain doesn't have that.' 

ZIRCON had been conceived by Brian Tovey to keep the special
relationship sweet and to take his organization into space, the next
logical area of sigint development. Tovey, says a former GCHQ officer,
'was gung-ho, a real expansionist'. The Director's background, the
sensitivity about the relationship with NSA, and a perception of the
gains to be made from a sigint spacecraft all seem to have ensured
that, from an early stage, Tovey's plan was for an eavesdropping
satellite rather than one able to send back pictures. 

The British satellite was conceived as a geosynchronous one that
would sit over the Soviet Union. Tovey's vision of ZIRCON was to
survive from 1983, when the Cabinet Office approved initial studies,
to the autumn of 1986. A member of the Defence Intelligence Staff at
the time says, 'It was held at an incredibly tight level. We knew that
there was something called ZIRCON and we knew it would be incredibly
expensive.' Just how expensive would be the subject of heated argument
following the publication of Campbell's article, but given the costs
of the US systems, it is unlikely that ZIRCON and its associated
ground station would have cost Britain less than 500 million. Much
of this enormous investment would have to be repeated after five years
or so, the expected life of the satellite. 

There was some debate within Whitehall as to how this expenditure
could be justified, given that by this time the NSA had near-global
coverage with its constellations of two different types of sigint
satellite. ZIRCON's backers at GCHQ argued that it would allow the
USA not to fill a certain slot, or give the British complete
independence if they required it. However, the managers from
Cheltenham conceded that three geosynchronous satellites would be
needed for a complete stand-alone UK constellation - and nobody
thought Whitehall would pay for that. 

The publication of Duncan Campbell's article in January 1987 brought
the hitherto 'black' project into the glare of publicity. Following
publication, says Nigel Lawson in his book, 'Margaret instructed
Michael Havers, the Attorney General, to issue an injunction against
[Campbell] . . . in a somewhat unfortunate blaze of publicity, the
police raided offices both of the BBC in Glasgow and of the New
Statesman in London.' The sight of Special Branch detectives carrying
off videotapes and papers antagonized liberal opinion, and was
evidence of how deeply entrenched the Prime Minister had become in
her desire to protect the intelligence services from journalistic
scrutiny, even if the political cost was high. 

Nigel Lawson says in his memoirs, 'Well before all this blew up, I
had succeeded in getting the ZIRCON project cancelled on grounds of
cost.' He says the satellite 'did not in any sense leave the ground'.
In August of that year Michael Evans, defence correspondent of The
Times, wrote a lead story in which he revealed that ZIRCON had been
cancelled in February 1987, but that 'the Prime Minister and key
Cabinet colleagues have decided to keep alive the idea of Britain
having its own spy satellite by going ahead with a programme that
will rely instead on American technology'. Evans's leak was
authoritative and accurate, whereas the Lawson version was incorrect
in saying that the British satellite did not leave the ground 'in any
sense' - and probably also incorrect about the timing of the
cancellation decision. What happened after the furore over the
Campbell article died down has not been revealed before, but was
discussed by key figures involved in the decision. 

The Prime Minister's extreme sensitivity may have been connected with
the fact that she was close to having to make a decision about ZIRCON
at the time that Duncan Campbell's programme was being made. Despite
Thatcher's generous attitude towards the intelligence services, she
and the senior Cabinet colleagues who knew about the plan were coming
to the conclusion that ZIRCON was simply too expensive. In 1987 GCHQ's
entire annual budget was about 350 million. The cost to the UK of
owning and maintaining a single ZIRCON satellite would have added
about 100 million a year to GCHQ's budget in perpetuity. This was
about twice the annual cost of the DIS, which had 800 staff at the
time, and approached the budget of SIS. 
A series of meetings between heads of agencies and senior officials in
PSIS in late 1986 had been moving towards the view that Britain could
not continue with the project in its original form. They sought an
alternative arrangement that would allow GCHQ to enter the space
sigint game. Lieutenant-General Derek Boorman, the Chief of Defence
Intelligence, was party to those meetings and sums up their outcome:
'Getting that capability was essential. There was no divergence of
opinion about it. We may have studied going it alone, but the UK
simply isn't able to afford that geographic coverage on its own, so
we subscribed to their system.' The 'subscription' that the spymasters
had in mind was a cash payment to the NSA to cover part of the cost of
one of their new sigint satellite constellations. 

In February 1987 a small group of ministers, including Mrs Thatcher
and Geoffrey Howe, met to discuss the issue. The intelligence
committees had also put two other options to them: continuing with a
'made in Britain' satellite, or scrapping all UK involvement in the
field. In the time-honoured Whitehall fashion, the ministers took the
middle way and opted to buy into the US system. It was the right
choice, says Geoffrey Howe: 'A decision to maintain access to that
facility can be justified. Beggars can't be choosers. If you can't
afford a wholly independent operation then you have to put in a share.'
At his headquarters at Fort Meade in Maryland, the Director of the NSA
was relieved by Britain's decision to abandon the 'go it alone'
national project. Lieutenant-General Odom says, 'I never thought they
should even have tried ZIRCON. They thought about it for their
industrial base, but it didn't make sense.' Not surprisingly, the
general preferred the idea of a large GCHQ cheque being paid into his
satellite programme rather than the money going to British industry. 
The amount spent on ZIRCON up to that point was 70 million, according
to the Times report of August. The size of Britain's contribution to
the NSA was around 500 million. It was, says one senior figure in
British intelligence, 'part of the way we kept up our subscription to
the US country club'. Britain had paid a price equivalent to the cost
of a single satellite, part of a three-craft American constellation.
The complex arrangements were agreed in a super-secret memorandum of
understanding between the US and UK governments which I believe was
signed in the latter part of 1988. One of the satellites would, to
borrow Ernest Bevin's phrase about the British nuclear bomb, have a
Union Jack on the side, but Britain could also consider itself
part-owner of all of them, sharing the take of the entire
constellation. The UK would also have the right to 'task' any of the
three satellites for up to one third of the time. On the other hand,
the 'British' satellite would never actually be delivered to the UK
and the highly-sensitive technology within it remained firmly within
the NSA's security system. Furthermore, it is said that the NSA can
override GCHQ even in the tasking of the 'British' craft. 

Britain's decision to join this US scheme was a one-off financial
transaction. Someone party to the deliberations says, 'There was a
strong presumption that we'd never replace it.' 

In 1994 the first satellite in the second generation MAGNUM series
was launched. The payload fairing on the rocket which carried it was
around eighty feet long, indicating that the listening dish mounted on
the craft may possibly have a diameter as large as 160 feet. Britain
appears to have invested in the largest sigint satellite yet built. A
second satellite in the series was launched in 1995. It is possible
one of these was the British 'bird'. 

The decision was a sensible one in several ways. It ensured that
British money was going on the best possible technology; there was
no duplication of what NSA was doing; and the UK was insulated from
the possibility that the satellite might be blown up during launch or
fail in orbit. The disadvantages were equally apparent: it transformed
the UK from being a virtual client of the USA to being a literal one,
reinforcing national dependence in intelligence; it left open the
question of what happens when the 'subscription' runs out,
particularly if, as some suggest, it was a once-only deal; and it
opened up the possibility that a system Britain had partly paid for
might be used by the NSA to spy on the UK's allies, further blurring
the frontiers of the nation's sigint sovereignty. 
These negative aspects made the February 1987 decision a watershed for
British intelligence. There was, however, a choice that was not one of
the three options presented to ministers: co-operation with France.
There were reasons why such a decision would have been timely. 
After the shock of Reykjavik, the Cabinet decided to start talks with
France on another area central to the UK-US special relationship:
nuclear weapons. In fact, the month after the ZIRCON decision, there
were discussions about collaboration with the French in the
development of an air-launched nuclear-armed missile that could have
been used on Royal Air Force Tornado bombers. These talks did not pay
off; the Ministry of Defence eventually stated its preference for a US
missile, before having to cancel the project altogether owing to
financial pressure. 

France's intelligence services had also thought through the
intelligence implications of the space age, and during the mid-1980s
had come to very different conclusions. France had decided that its
national commitment to space, exemplified by the Ariane rocket and the
extensive complex from which it was launched at Korou in French Guiana,
should be considerable. Spending heavily on military space projects
did not frighten French ministers - in fact, it appealed to them.
France committed itself to buying two photographic satellites
code-named HELIOS. In 1986 funds were agreed for the development of a
radar imaging craft called OSIRIS and later renamed HORUS. Research
was also started into the only other significant area of space
intelligence-gathering - the area that interested GCHQ - with the
sigint project ZENON. 

The price of developing three different kinds of space-based
intelligence systems is obviously high. In 1995 the cost of the HELIOS
project alone is estimated at about 950 million. France's annual
spending on its military space programme grew from about 200 million
in 1990 to around 390 million in 1994. Legislators in the National
Assembly considered these plans too ambitious and tried to stop some
of them. Paris tried to attract Spanish and Italian investment in
HELIOS and to persuade Germany to contribute to HELIOS 2 - so helping
to pay for a second generation of satellites - in return for allowing
these allies to share in the tasking and product of the systems. 

A British offer to take a large share - perhaps exploiting GCHQ's
know-how to take the lead in ZENON - would probably have been welcomed
by France, and would have had at least some benefits for British
industry. To speculate along these lines misses the point, however;
even in its 'go it alone' form, ZIRCON was at least partly conceived
as a tribute to the NSA - a way of paying them back. Joining
traditional rivals France in such a venture would have touched deep
chords of national insecurity. Furthermore, taking even a one-third
share in France's array of projects would, by the 1990s, have been
costing Britain more than ZIRCON. One senior civil servant argues that
the French programmes were not a real alternative: 'Investing anywhere
else would have bought far less capability. The French don't even know
how far behind they are.' By 1987 Britain had taken the decision, to
borrow Geoffrey Howe's words, to play the role of beggar rather than
chooser in the world of high-technology intelligence-gathering. 

The saga of Britain's spy satellite, complete with court injunctions
and police raids, coincided with episodes in two other difficult and
long-running public dramas involving Thatcher and the intelligence
services: banning trade unions at GCHQ and trying to prevent the
publication of Peter Wright's book Spycatcher. In these three matters,
the Prime Minister's determination to pursue her policies won her the
admiration of many, but also the antipathy of others in the
intelligence world who hated the fuss and public attention she had
brought them. 

In November 1986 the British government found itself in an Australian
court, trying to stop Wright's publishers sidestepping a UK injunction
against publication by bringing the book out on the other side of the
world. The encounters between Malcolm Turnbull, acting for Wright's
publishers, and Robert Armstrong, the Civil Service chief sent from
Britain to defend the government line that the ex-MI5 man owed a
lifelong duty of confidentiality, provided a daily drama in the
British press. Armstrong, trying to deal with Turnbull's references to
MI6 - which the Thatcher government did not want to admit existed -
agreed to refer to it as 'the other place'. In one session, struggling
under cross-examination, the Cabinet Secretary admitted, in a phrase
which was to enter the language, that he had been 'economical with the
truth'. 

In March 1987 the Australian court rejected the UK government's
request for an injunction. An appeal failed six months later and the
matter then went to the House of Lords, where the government also
lost. The Prime Minister had underestimated both the anti-English
sentiment in Australia, which found its expression in the courts, and
the practical impossibility of getting the Spycatcher genie back in
its bottle once copies had begun to circulate. 
In the Security Service itself, Wright was widely despised by the
staff, who dedicated themselves to the principle of keeping secret
what they knew, and who also regarded much of what he said as
questionable or untrue. In a subsequent BBC television interview with
Panorama's John Ware, Wright's most disturbing allegation - that there
had been a plot against Harold Wilson's government - fell apart on
screen, with the ageing writer admitting that it had not involved
thirty MI5 officers, as stated in his book, but had consisted of 
little more than idle chatter between Wright himself and a small 
number of his colleagues. What Security Service officers resented was 
the fact that the government attempt to ban publication had invested
Wright's allegations with credibility. Anthony Duff, Director General
of MI5 at the time the decision was made to proceed against Wright,
said, 'The whole thing was a disaster in terms of (a) making a lot of
money for Peter Wright and (b) holding up the British state to
ridicule. I went along with it. I should have tried to stop it.' Duff
had deferred to his Legal Adviser, Bernard Sheldon, and other
government law officers who had originally advocated prosecution. 
Armstrong's grilling in the witness box had disturbed some civil
servants. One Whitehall mandarin recalls, 'I felt very sorry for
Robert. I'm absolutely certain he did it as a civil servant doing his
duty, not being influenced by considerations of personal discomfort -
which you might say is the understatement of the year.' 
The banning of the trade unions at GCHQ was effectively accomplished
by 1987. Thatcher had launched this initiative in January 1984; it
married her instinctive dislike of union power with the desire on the
part of some Cheltenham and Whitehall mandarins to remove such
organisations from this field of intelligence work. Thatcher and her
advisors believed banning unions was vital to the UK-US relationship,
which they argued had been put under strain by industrial action at
Cheltenham in 1979 and 1981. The union ban became a rallying issue for
the left, later producing a Labour Party commitment to reverse the
process once in power. 
Subsequent verdicts on the affair from two figures who were closely
involved and still believe in the principle of de-unionization, but
who felt deep reservations about its 'handling' - in other words, the
politics of what was done - are instructive. Michael Herman, a senior
GCHQ officer until 1987, wrote after his retirement, 'The likely
verdict on de-unionization will be that the consequences were not
thought through - perhaps as was repeated with the Poll Tax . . .
consultation with the Opposition seems to have been no part of the
plan. It was not the Thatcher style.' Geoffrey Howe, who as Foreign
Secretary had to carry the Parliamentary can for the de-unionization
exercise, felt the GCHQ story said something deeper about the
government's attitudes to secrecy, and shares Herman's view that the
lack of consultation 'was our fundamental mistake. We made it because
of our failure to appreciate the difficulties, the subtleties indeed,
of moving . . . from darkness to light.' 
Thatcher had spelt out her 'say nothing' approach in an interview in
the summer of 1984, following calls for an inquiry into the Libyan
People's Bureau affair. She referred to remarks made at the beginning
of the Falklands crisis by 'someone who knew a bit about intelligence
which was totally and utterly devastating in the amount which it gave
away', and added, 'The moment you say too much, the sources dry up.'
Her remarks were directed against Ted Rowlands, a Labour MP who had
served as Foreign Office Minister of State from 1976-9. During the
emergency debate on 3 April 1982 that followed the Argentine capture
of the islands, he told the Commons that a possible invasion in 1977
had been deterred because of the quality of intelligence available,
and said, 'I shall make disclosure. As well as trying to read the mind
of the enemy, we have been reading its telegrams for many years.' 
One of the intelligence chiefs interviewed cited Rowlands's remarks
as a textbook example of the sensitivity of signal intelligence
methods and a reason for limiting the role of MPs in scrutinizing
sigint activities. One suggested that Argentine intercepts had dried
up within hours of the parliamentary disclosure. The Rowlands anecdote
does, however, shed more light on the attitude of Thatcher and those
mandarins to democratic oversight than it does on the real nature of
the south Atlantic intelligence war.  'The Argentines were doing
everything they could do within their knowledge and apparatus to
protect themselves. Even if they were told a channel was unreliable
they would not have been able to do anything differently.' In other
words, the Labour MP's remarks had had no noticeable effect. They had,
however, provided Number 10 with useful political ammunition. 
The Prime Minister felt that matters of secret policy were the
exclusive preserve of leaders and their intelligence agencies, and
could not be understood by others, particularly the media. In her
memoirs she notes her sympathy for Ronald and Nancy Reagan, who were
'hurt and bemused' by public comments on the Irangate affair, with
much 'cruelty and contempt . . . pouring out from the liberal media'.
 Regarding Reagan as a friend, she could not help sympathizing with
him when his honesty was being questioned by those outside the
Administration. 
The Irangate crisis had been growing since the autumn of 1986, as
revelations emerged about the work of a secret group within the
National Security Council (NSC) first in trading arms for US hostages
in Beirut and later in using the profits from the sale of weapons to
Iran to back the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. Congress had forbidden
the use of US government funds to back the rebels, one of the
President's right-wing causes célèbres. John Poindexter, the National
Security Adviser, had resigned, as had Colonel Oliver North, the
principal NSC aide organizing the project. The issues at stake in
Irangate were serious enough, but it seems that the British Prime
Minister still found it difficult to accept that a leader should come
under media and legislative scrutiny for acts committed in their name.

SIS picked up information about Admiral Poindexter and Colonel North's
activities before they became public. Washington had kept Britain in
the dark about its covert hostage strategy, but MI6 learned about it
through a Middle East agent. I asked one spymaster whether Whitehall
told the Americans it knew what they were up to. He replied, 'All we
could do was tuck it away in a box, we couldn't have discussed it with
them. This was UK Eyes Alpha, after all!' 
At one point during the long hostage saga, Britain received sufficient
intelligence to plan a rescue mission. Interviewees suggest it was
provided by the Americans. In Immediate Action, published in 1996, a
former SAS sergeant writing under the pseudonym Andy McNab suggested
that he had been part of such an operation. McNab claimed dozens of
troops had been standing by in the Middle East; a small number of
members of G Squadron were actually on the ground in Beirut as an
advanced party when the operation was stood down. However close the
SAS may have got, when the highly reliable information needed to
launch such an operation was obtained there was not enough time. In
fairness to SIS, which spent years trying to locate the British
hostages, the captives were moved every few months (Brian Keenan
suggests seventeen times in all) and held in areas where the
kidnappers could ensure the discretion of local people. 
Thatcher's desire to keep all intelligence matters shrouded in
darkness was central to the union problems at GCHQ, the ZIRCON
police raids and the Spycatcher court battle. Some senior figures,
such as Anthony Duff at the Security Service, were already undermining
this strategy by discreet briefings of newspaper editors. Others felt
 that the publicity attending all three cases had been truly damaging
and that the Prime Minister lacked the sophistication to know what was
in the best interests of her 'secret services'. One senior figure
remarks, 'I did not have great respect for her mind - a 2.2 was about
right.' These occasional tensions between the intelligence chiefs and
the Prime Minister were eventually to become focused on the central
issue of the day: Gorbachev and his sincerity.