  __________SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE TWENTY SEVEN MARCH  2000 ___________
 /      Site Busting III: Gathering infomation on your targets      \
/                      By -=The Firestarter=-                        \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Ok a "few" people have asked me about this, heh and in my opinion it's
just been a cover up for "write a guide on how to hack", well that's not
something that i'm going to do, since it's not possible to be taught to
hack, ok so NBug showed me to ropes with a lot of it and also pointed
me in the right direction, and i now try to learn things for myself.
As for what i learned about *nix systems, heh well i had to figure all
of that out myself. 

Now i've got to be honest, i've always favored those who give back and
work for themselves rather than wanting everything for nothing and
wanting to be spoon fed, so instead of a step by step guide to 0wning
an NT system, here's a simple yet effective way of utilising a number
of tools to aid you in cracking a system, from there, you can use your
knowledge to take it another step further.

So without any delay, here's my mini review/personal choice of
vulnrability scanners for you all!

(1) SAAT - Shadow Scan

Ok this is always my first choice when attacking a system, it has a range
of nice features, but to be perfectly honest - i never use them. I find
that the Site Info scanner is efficent enough for the information on a
simple break in. Ok this loverly little feature resolves a domain name
and scans that returning the following information:

O/S of Server
FTP server Daemon
HTTP server Daemon
SMTP Server
POP3 Server
NNTP Server
DNS Server
SOCKS Server
Proxy Server
Telnet Server

Now for me atleast, that's usually enough to show me what i need to find
and what exploits i need to either use or locate in order to get into
the system. If it finds something that i've never encountered before then
it's a simple case of locating any exploits in the huge archive that i
have and carrying those out :o)

So in a nutshell, SAAT is a very useful program that saves a lot of time
when it comes to getting into servers. Oh yeah, and the Domain scanner
that it has is also useful in locating servers!

(2) ISS (Internet Security Scanner - i think)

Heh, i love this tool! it tests for over 100 exploits on a system, any
that are found it produces a report telling you where to get information
on them, how to patch them as well as a number of other useful things.
All you've gotta do is tell it the type of system (desktop computer, 
Unix server, NT server, Unix web server, NT Webserver etc) and what level
to scan (i.e a level 5 scan will test just about everything on it whereas
a level 1 scan won't). It can take a while to perform a full scan, but it
is most definatly worth it. Once a hole is located, all you've got to do
is exploit it. Since this program is so nice, it even tells us where the
information to exploit it is found :o)
I suppose that it's all worth it for a 30mb program that costs a fortune
for the licenses (yeah it is a commercial program). 

Well those two programs (both are found on the SWAT CD) are pretty much
all you need for locating holes, or potential holes, in any server out
there. 