   _________   SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE TWENTY: AUGUST 1999   __________
  /         \___________________________________________/          \
 /	               Lifes little Theories                        \
/                          By Syb1_Qui                               \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


Since time has begun the has been a King or Queen watching and Keeping
every one in line with the if you disobeyed you would get the death 
penalty or slavery but since the 1860s they have taken one step further
they brought in the government witch has covered up such things as 
E.B.E (Extraterrestrial Biological Entities) encounters, Technology 
(witch could be found because of the E.B.Es ether crashed UFOs or 
encounters) or even faked EBE encounters,                      
etc so in this issue of S.W.A.T magazine  I will tell you what I think
that the government do and cover up ............          

The people of this planet suffer because of the government in some way.
The government are the people who run your life and confine you to 
boundaries witch stops you from every thin I will start straight away
in saying that whenever you go out you are watched, any thing you say 
is herd by implants or some government spy it could be any one, you 
friend, family, the man down the street or even your parents you life 
is written in black and white and imprinted on your mind though TV, 
Computers and subliminal messages by sounds that we cannot hear. When
you think you don't think it you are told it, like I need a fag or TV, 
the government get paid (Tax) for the license and for the fags but 
what do you get out of them nothing except Strike it lucky on a Friday 
night and lung cancer (witch was made by the government hundreds of 
years ago (all forms).        

The X-Files have it to a tee about the abducted and returned with no 
memory of what happened (after getting drunk blind) with 9 minuets lost
but with the abductions you get consequences witch ether you get 
abducted repeatedly, implants and/or diseases. The implants could be 
mini microphones, tracers, cameras or even worse a life threatening 
disease they aren't aliens that abduct you they are the military.

Cigarettes are good for the mind but there must be some other way in 
tacking in the nicotine then inhaling it in to your lungs. There's 
1.0mg of nicotine and 12mg of the lung filling tar in one packet of 
faggs (20) and don't forget that there is all those poisonous gases 
(carbon monoxide) witch is the worst its deadly all around. I have 
herd recently that the Gov are making a new kind of tobacco witch has 
been grown with chemicals (plant growth hormone steroids) witch has 
more nicotine in less of a fag but there will be more carbon monoxide.

---------------------
Moonlanding Pictures! (avalible from www.swateam.org/reviewed/swat20)


Stars
None of the lunar photos show stars in the sky.  The moon doesn't have
an atmosphere so why can't we see the stars? 

I'll tell you why, because NASA couldn't fake the complicated 
arrangement of the stars, so they just left them out. 
This theory isn't quite as dumb as the evidence of the shadows, but 
it's a close call.  Anyone seriously proposing it knows nothing about
photography. 
'Photographic expert' David S. Percy is sometimes quoted supporting 
this argument. It's rarely added that he is also a lunatic.  It is 
practically impossible to capture a brightly and harshly lit object in
the foreground (like, say, an astronaut) and a dim object in the 
background (like a star) in the same exposure.
  Do a long exposure to capture the stars and you'll get a fuzzy 
overexposed blob in the foreground.  Do a short exposure to capture 
the astronaut and the stars just won't appear.  Guess what exposure 
the Apollo cameras used? 
So why didn't they take any photos with the camera set to capture the 
stars?  Probably because they weren't there to look at the stars.  
It is quite possible to take far better pictures of the stars with 
bigger cameras on earth than the ones they'd transported all the way to
the moon.  Sure, if they'd taken those cameras to the moon they'd have
got some stunning pictures.  But these were missions where all 
additional weight had to be justified. 
But don't take my word for this.  Try it your self.  Go take a photo 
of a street light against the night sky.  Wonder what photos our 
'expert' has ever taken? 
As for the assertion that NASA couldn't fake the stars, had they wanted
to.  Well, this will come as a big shock to the all planetariums around
the world.. 
  
Earth
The pictures of the Earth that were taken from the Moon are way too 
small.  The Earth should be bigger. 
This statement shows a lack of understanding of camera focal lengths. 
Put simply, with a camera of usual focal length (e.g. 45mm) you get 
tiny images of distant objects.  Try it your self.  Take a photo of 
the moon with your camera.  You'll get back from the developers a
photo of a tiny white dot in the middle of a black sky.  The cameras 
used by the astronauts during the Apollo landings were not really that 
much different to your camera in this respect..  They weren't there to 
take photos of the Earth. 
  
Flares

This photo, like many others, has strange blobs of light hanging in 
the moon's sky.  What are they then?
Another common item of 'proof' presented to prove...er... what 
exactly?  Well, most conspiracy theorist don't explain what these are 
meant to prove.  They are so obvious that you'd think that if they
proved the photos were fake then NASA would have air-brushed them out.
 And if they really are mysterious things in the moon's sky, then 
isn't that saying that the astronauts really were there?  I suppose we
shouldn't expect logic or consistancy from the hoax theorist. 
Either way, the blobs are no mystery at all and any photographer could
identify them.  They're caused by lens flare, effectively very bright 
light reflecting off the interior of the camera's lens.  If you take a 
look at some of your own photos of a bright outdoors scene I bet you'll
find similar ones. 
Home-made

Look, this photo shows girders and other objects in shot that couldn't
have been on the Moon.  It proves these photos were fakes taken on
Earth. 
Not quite.  It proves the photo was taken on Earth.  A lot of the 
photos produced as evidence are photos taken on Earth.  What isn't
said that these photos were published prior to the moon landings and 
show astronauts in training.   No-one ever claimed they were from the 
moon. 
  
View From Above

The famous 'man on the moon' photo taken by Armstrong of Aldrin is a 
view from above.  You can tell this because you can see the top of 
Aldrin's head.  But the camera was held on Armstrong's chest, below 
eye level.  This proves that Armstrong did not take the photo as 
claimed and it is a fake. 
The 'proof' doesn't come any dumber than this.  Armstrong was further
up an incline on the moon's surface, so he was above Aldrin.  Again, a 
staggeringly simple explanation any backward five year old could grasp.
But some people really don't get this. 
  
Half Baked
The temperatures on the moon would have baked film until it frizzled. 
So the Apollo astronauts couldn't have taken any photos. 
Well, gee, I supposed they must have protected the cameras from the 
heat in a similar way that they protected the astronauts.  Is this 
impossible?

There is one single thing that proves positive men went to the moon, 
and it can be done by just about anyone.  Ok, maybe not everyone, but
plenty have done it and and it proves men have been up there. 
Basically all you do is buy a laser and a detector and a light 
collecting mirror.  Then you fire it at a precise point on the moon.   
There is a reflector there, placed by Apollo astronauts.  Now if there
was nothing at that point but rock that would be the last you would 
see of your laser.  But time and time again scientist claim to have 
been getting their laser relected back.  Indeed, they have done a 
number of experiments using these reflectors. 
So either you're going to argue that all these unrelated scientists 
are in on the hoax with NASA, or you have to accept that someone put 
those reflectors up there