   _________   SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE TWENTY: AUGUST 1999   __________
  /         \___________________________________________/          \
 /	             NSA DIRECTORATES AND GROUPS                    \
/            By  Netw0rk Bug   bug@netw0rk.freeserve.co.uk           \
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Yea as promised more juicy NSA information.

Unlike other intelligence organizations such as CIA or DIA, NSA is 
particularly  reticent concerning its internal organizational structure.

The National Security Agency is organized into five Directorates, each of 
which consists of several groups or elements. The Operations Directorate 
is responsible for SIGINT collection and processing. T he Technology and 
Systems Directorate develops new technologies for SIGINT collection and 
processing. The Information Systems Security Directorate is responsible 
for NSA's communications and information security missions. The Pl ans, 
Policy and Programs Directorate provides staff support and general 
direction for the Agency, while the Support Services Directorate provides 
logistical and administrative support activities. 

A Group - Former Soviet Bloc
This Group performs worldwide SIGINT operations at fixed sites and with 
assigned and attached mobile assets to collect against targets in the 
Former Soviet Bloc. It maintains liaison with service CSS components on 
SIGINT operations of direct interest to t his area of responsibility, 
under the SIGINT OPCON of the DIRNSA or the Chief, Central Security Service 
(CHCSS).(The current designation of this Group is uncertain) 

B Group - Asia
This Group performs worldwide SIGINT operations at fixed sites and with 
assigned and attached mobile assets to collect against targets, including 
China, North Korea, and Vietnam. It maintains liaison with service CSS 
components on SIGINT operations of dir ect interest to this area of 
responsibility, under the SIGINT OPCON of the DIRNSA or the Chief, Central 
Security Service (CHCSS).(The current designation of this Group is uncertain) 

C Group - Policy & Resources (??)
This Group establishes immediate, short and long range policy and resource 
requirements for Information Security activities to satisfy current and 
future requirements. It identifies needs, criteria development, and program 
development of projects for oper ation and maintenance of current assets 
and acquisition or construction of new facilities. 

D Group - Director
The Director of the NSA directs and controls the National Security Agency 
(NSA) in the accomplishment of assigned missions, programs, plans, and
projects. This Group serves as the NSA focus for DIRNSA Central Security 
Service (CSS) activities, and for the US Signals Intelligence Directive 
System. The Group also represents NSA on other SIGINT community coordinating 
committees, such as the DCI Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) Committee, SIGINT 
Requirements Validation and Evaluation Subcommittee (SIRVES) and SO RS. 

E Group - Contract Support (?)
This Group provides acquisition and management services and support to 
other NSA program offices in the development of technical and nontechnical 
support facility requirements and concepts. It develops facility acquisition 
strategies, plans, master schedu les, cost estimates, and management plans. 
It provides engineering management services, plans for maintenance and operation 
of facilities, and coordinates with host nations or commands. The Group acts as 
principal staff advisor and assistant to the Direct or, NSA, in the development 
and application of NSA contracting policy, plans, programs, and systems as 
related to contracting of supplies and services; production management; industrial 
preparedness planning; DAR; FAR; and contracting reporting; DoD Coord inated 
Acquisition Program; market research and analysis; DoD Procurement Management 
Review (PMR) Program; NSA field contracting activities; ADP/T contracting; 
Pricing and Competition, and management improvement initiatives; and exercises 
staff program di rection over assigned programs. 
(The identity of this Group is tentative) 

F Group (No Group with this designation has been identified) 

G Group - Operations (?) / All Others (?)
This Group performs worldwide SIGINT operations at fixed sites and with 
assigned and attached mobile assets to collect against targets areas not 
covered by A and B Groups. It maintains liaison with service CSS components 
on SIGINT operations of direct int erest to this area of responsibility, 
under the SIGINT OPCON of the DIRNSA or the Chief, Central Security Service 
(CHCSS).(The current designation of this Group is uncertain) 

H Group (No Group with this designation has been identified) 

I Group - Information Security Programs 
This Group develops, establishes, and administers comprehensive programs 
for information security, classification management, security education 
and motivation, and industrial and personnel security. It represents NSA 
on the Security Career Program Policy Council. 

J Group - Legislative Affairs
Acts as the principal staff advisor and assistant to the Director, NSA, 
and other staff elements on all NSA matters with respect to Legislative Affairs. 

K Group - Operations Research (?)
This Group directs NSA Cryptologic research activities to provide theoretical 
and other support for all US Communications Security (COMSEC) and SIGINT
activities. (The identity of this Group is tentative) 

L Group - Logistics
Serves as the principal focus for on matters relating to the implementation 
of the NSA logistics support activities, including support by the Defense 
ourier Service. 

M Group - Administration
Acts as the principal staff advisor and assistant to the Director, NSA, 
and other staff elements on all NSA matters, exclusive of equipment (ADP 
and non-ADP) and software, with respect to printing and publications; library; 
postal and mail; travel; audiov isual facilities, productions and exhibits; 
records, forms, and correspondence; committee management; authentication of 
publications, directives, and communications. 

N Group - Programs
This Group determines, in conjunction with the entire NSA staff, immediate, 
short and long range planning requirements for facility development to satisfy 
current and future mission requirements. It identifies facility need, facility 
criteria development, and program development of projects for operation and 
maintenance of current assets and acquisition or construction of new facilities. 

O Group (No Group with this designation has been identified) 

P Group - Production
This Group is NSA's principal element for the production of finished SIGINT 
(ELINT and COMINT) products in support of other consumers in the intelligence
community. The Group provides signals intelligence research, retrieval and 
dissemination services for NSA programs, associated contractors and other 
government agencies and contractors. It maintains manual and automated classified 
data bases to facilitate the acquisition, storage and dissemination of signals 
intelligence information. The Group identifies and establishes NSA requirements 
for SIGINT production based on consumers' present and future needs. It serves 
as the focal point for intelligence documentation support and processing and 
dissemination requests through national automated intelligence dat a bases. 

Q Group - Plans & Policy
This Group acts as the principal staff advisor and assistant to the Director, 
NSA, and other staff elements on the initiation, development, integration, 
coordination, and monitoring of NSA policy, plans, programs, and projects and 
is responsible for overs ight of designated NSA/CSS programs; mission and 
organization control; command control and contingency planning; NSA studies 
and projects, operations research and. economic analysis; NSA strategic planning 
and personnel authorizations and position managem ent. 

R Group - Research & Engineering
This Group transforms SIGINT collection requirements into system performance 
parameters, requirements, and system configurations. It establishes and maintains
system performance specifications and supports the configuration controls. The 
Group develops an d monitors internal and external interface requirements, defines
test and target requirements and provides cost, schedule, produceability, 
manufacturing, basing, logistics, and other support necessary for SIGINT collection 
system development and deploymen t. The Group serves as a center for research and 
development on signals intelligence technologies, and provides for evaluation of
algorithms, data bases, and display concepts in signal processing. The Group 
maintains facilities for research and developmen t on audio and speech signal
processing, the supports test and evaluation of speech processing technology to 
intelligence related problems. 

S Group - Standards & Evaluation
This Group develops, establishes, and evaluates implementation of comprehensive 
standards for information security, classification management, security education
and motivation, and industrial and personnel security. The Group provides staff 
supervision a nd guidance for industrial security program, performs industrial 
security functions of review and approval, serves on contract requirements and 
technical review boards, and performs industrial security inspections of classified 
contractor activities. It i s the primary COMSEC community focus for development 
and certification of COMSEC equipment and procedures. 

T Group - Telecommunications
This Groups manages all government and contractor activities associated with the 
design, development, production and operation of Special Intelligence
Communications (SPINTCOM) networks and systems for the transmission of SIGINT data 
and products. 

U Group - General Counsel
Provides legal advice and services to the Director and the Heads of NSA staff 
elements on matters involving or affecting NSA, exercises supervisory and professional 
control over personnel providing legal services in NSA, provides liaison with other 
agenci es on legal issues relating to NSA, and manages assigned programs. 

V Group - Network Security (?)
This Group develops, establishes, and administers comprehensive programs for 
communications network security and related industrial security. (The identity of 
this Group is tentative) 

W Group - Space
This Group implements operational control of space-based sensors. It documents, 
maintains, and implements operational requirements, monitors capabilities, and
coordinates activities for sensors. Provides resource management for collection, 
transmission an d processing of SIGINT derived from space-based sensors. The
Group monitors and performs analysis on sensor operations, system capabilities, 
and performance. It manages technical service support (TSS) contracts to ensure
operational support for ground sta tions. Interfaces with NRO on system acquisition. 
The Group coordinates and monitors system testing for space-based sensors,
and interfaces with the Air Force Satellite Control Facility (SCF) for operational 
tasking. It also coordinates and provides input on future sensor requirements. 

X Group - Special Access Systems (???) (The function and designation of this Group 
is undetermined) 

Y Group - ??? (The function and designation of this Group is undetermined) 

Z Group (No Group with this designation has been identified) 



----------------------------------------------------------------------
Written By Netw0rk Bug for SWATEAM www.swateam.org AUG'99
If you have any questions or comments then don't hesitate
to mail me at " bug@netw0rk.freeserve.co.uk " I would like
to hear from anyone, no matter what they have to say.
----------------------------------------------------------------------