

	"the network is the computer, the computer is the brain."
The Anarchives 				Volume 3 Issue 8
	The Anarchives			Published By
		The Anarchives		The Anarchy Organization
			The Anarchives	tao@lglobal.com

		Send your e-mail address to get on the list
		Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--			Telecommunications
             /  /  \  \			Deregulation
         ---|--/----\--|---		and the
             \/      \/			Rise of the
             /\______/\			Corporate State


-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~

Robert E. Allen, Chairman and C.E.O. of AT&T, with the recent passing of the U$ 
Telecommunications Act in describing AT&T's expansion plans said, "the fast lane 
has opened up"1.
We are witnessing the continued acceleration of technological change, and the 
simultaneous acceleration of AT&T's imperial penetration into all communication 
markets.
AT&T's recent announcement of a divestiture, allows them the flexibility and 
Ca$h necessary to traverse local and global markets. They have succeded with the 
cross-subsidized marketing machine, and the value of a loyal and established 
'brand'. AT&T has the world's largest intelligent network; a phiber-optik 
network run by intelligent switches. AT&T competes with forces of evolution to 
become the global central nervous system.

Unitel Communications, the second largest phone company in Canada, is also one 
of the oldest phone companies in Canada. Originaly called CNCP, Unitel use to 
comprise the communications infrastructure for the Canadian Railways.
With the advent of the eighties, most of the public sector, which included 
allowing Rogers Communications, and AT&T Canada to invest in CNCP, which was 
then renamed Unitel.
Last summer, Unitel went through a minor 'debt crisis' and the two leading 
Canadian investors backed away. Due to foreign ownership restrictions AT&T was 
limited to 33% ownership of Canadian based Unitel. So four Canadian charter 
banks eagerly  took on partnership with the International telecommunications 
conglomerate. Banks of course are the phone companies' biggest clients.
The reorganization of ownership was followed by the reorganization of Unitel's 
board of directors. Barbara MacDougal who served in the Mulrooney Cabinet under 
the portfolios of state and privatization, was named as a Director on the Unitel 
board.

While the hoopla of the information economy held the headlines, Unitel began 
changing it's name to AT&T Canada, and moved it's head offices from Toronto to 
Halifax, restructuring itself as an unlimited liability corporation. With this 
special legal status Unitel has a virtual bungee cord, enabling them to plunge 
deep into the red, while attached to the international conglomerate that can 
write the debt off as foreign investment in communication infrastructure.
AT&T can offer 25% off at all times, undercutting the Stentor Companies, while 
the Manhatten parent swallows Unitel's $1 Billion dollar debt into their $US 80 
Billion dollar annual revenue.
They'll match existing services and introduce new ones. Their progress is based 
upon the medium of the intelligent network that can manage diverse information 
networks. AT&T sponsors the Art Gallery of Ontario, while introducing networks 
that will transform society.
The wonders of the trans-national corporate state, subverting what remains of 
our democracy. The name of the game is monopoly, and the medium is the machine; 
the thinking evolving corporate machine.

As of January 1997 we will be living in a new regime. The new socio-economic 
organization of society will begin with the phone bill.
Local telephone services will undergo rate-rebalancing, and pricing will be 
based upon either pay-per-call or pay-per-minute. Our democratic rights have 
been subverted and supplanted with consumer rights.
This change deliberately has devastating effects on popular/progressive 
organizations and movements. While these groups are increasingly becoming 
involved in media activism, engaging and using the media as a political tool, 
regulation of the media is evolving to enhance and enforce the status-quo.
With pay-per-call, you receive 30 calls a month, and each additional call is 25 
cents.
So how many phone calls does it take to organize a union? How many phone calls 
does it take to organize a single meeting or a seminar? How many of our phone 
calls are answered  by machines or voice-mail?

We are told that the rationale behind 'usage sensitive pricing' is enabling the 
empowerment of the consumer. Certainly this has been the drive behind recent 
legislation in the US and Canada which also 'empowers the consumer' by giving 
them the technical ability to censor television violence.
The liberal media and civil liberties groups are all up in arms, crying 
'censorship' over the implementation of the V-Chip (which blocks TV violence) 
and US legislation that bans the use of profanities on electronic networks. In 
doing so the media are fulfilling their systemic function of diverting public 
attention from the real issues, and the real role of power within the 
communications system.
This so-called 'attack on civil-liberties' is nothing more than a red-herring. 
Capitalist front-men like John Parry Barlow of the Electronic Freedom Foundation 
are just jumping around, distracting the people from the real power play of 
telecommunications deregulation.

As the century draws to a close we are in the middle of a media revolution that 
challenges existing structures of order and control. The reigning communication 
czars are scurrying to both protect their own empire and conquer what emerges as 
the new one.
Media are converging, uniting to become some distortion of an 'Information 
Superhighway' that will deliver our dreams for a marketable monthly price.
Emphasis is shifting from the medium used to process information, to the utility 
used to transport it. Communication conglomerates are all jockeying to become 
the company to wire the highway into the home.

With rate-rebalancing, local telephone service regulation is transferred from 
the public institution of the Canadian RadioTelevision Telecommunications 
Commission (CRTC) to the private institution ambiguously termed 'the market'. 
Rate-rebalancing is the elimination of the long-distance subsidy that enables 
reduced flat local rates. A subsidy on local telephone service is not compatible 
with free trade and the will of the market.
Here we see that communication policy has been transformed into state-sponsored 
industrial policy, and the regulation of communications shifts from a social 
purpose to an industrial purpose. (Winseck 1995)

Historically speaking the date 1984 is a recurrent and symbolic fixture in the 
telecommunications arena. In that year the neo-conservative Mulrooney government 
was elected in Canada, and the Canadian telecommunications regulatory system 
followed the American model by dropping 'natural monopoly' status, and thereby 
introducing the possibility of competition. With the potential for an open 
telecommunications market, the neo-conservatives had the prerequisite for 
pursuing free trade.

"After 100 years of innovation, the telecommunications industry has achieved its 
potential as an enabler, energizer, and liberating force. Today, it's an 
industry at the hub of the political, economic, and social structure of global 
society, propelling momentous change."2
Telecommunications are the corner stone of any empire. Harold A. Innis' final 
book, "Empire And Communications," was an examination of the inherent 
relationship between communication systems, the management of trade, and the 
construction of political empires.
The new world order is based upon the deregulation of telecommunications, the 
liberalization of trade barriers, and thereby the globalization of capital.
It is therefore no surprise to learn that:
"Department Of Communication officials played key roles in negotiating the FTA 
and NAFTA, briefing foreign governments and industry representatives about the 
Canadian telecommunications environment, visiting provincial agencies to promote 
competitive telecommunications regimes and the linkage between 
telecommunications and regional economic development, and in elaborating 
domestic regulatory policy." (Winseck 1995)

Within the period of neo-conservative rule in Canada, the Department of 
Communications, which is itself responsible for the CRTC, was absorbed into the 
Ministry of Industry.
The CRTC consistently demonstrated their position as being in the back pocket of 
the telecommunication companies. In the rare exception where the CRTC ruled 
against the dominant interest, their decisions were overturned by the Federal 
Cabinet. 
During the implementation of the neo-conservative agenda "the CRTC executed the 
government's implicit policy absent a legislative mandate. As an article in the 
Financial Post pointed out, the Minister of Communications <Flora MacDonald> had 
intervened more times 'in 20 months than all her predecessors in the past 20 
years.'" (Winseck 1995)

I recently had a meeting with Robert McChesney, an American media analyst.
His concern was with the recent US Telecommunications Act, which he claimed was 
"perhaps one of the most corrupt pieces of legislation in U.S. history, 
effectively written by and for business." (McChesney 1996)
He also said that it was 'the most important legislation in a generation.'
Robert related an interesting story on the champion of the U.S. Information 
Superhighway, Vice-President Al Gore. Gore was originally elected to office with 
a vision of a 'public' information infrastructure. Original he saw public 
institutions taking an active role in building the impending information future. 
However in late 1993, Gore swiftly changed his focus from a public 
infrastructure, to a superhighway built by market forces. McChesney claimed that 
at this point Gore received a substantial amount of political campaign 
contributions.
Now with the successful passing of the US Telecommunications Act in February of 
96, the American market is almost completely deregulated.
In a knee-jerk reaction, monopolies are deregulated to encourage competition. 
However what we are witnessing is not a competition among equals, or even a 
competition amongst oligopolies. Rather we see the battle of monopolies, a 
competition to become the new monopoly.
Competition among the telecommunications industry translates directly into 
concentration of the industry. In the short time since the US legislation was 
passed, NYNEX and Bell Atlantic have announced mergers, and US West has enacted 
a $US 5.8 Billion dollar merger with Continental Cablevision, a major US cable 
company.
In New Zealand when telecommunication deregulation and rate-rebalancing occurred 
in 1989, Telecomm, the existing government monopoly, was bought by a consortium 
which included American giants: Ameritech and Bell Atlantic. In the five years 
following the deregulation, local phone rates went up by over 81%.
It's no wonder that telecommunications competition is referred to as 'the waltz 
of elephants'.

Last fall I received an email from my friend Marita Moll who is a founding 
member of both the Public Information Highway Advisory Council, and the Alliance 
for a Connected Canada, two public interest groups trying to engage in the 
current telecommunication decision-making process. In this email she requested 
that I (and the many other recipients on the mail-list) print out a part of the 
email and send it off to the Secretary General of the CRTC.
In between downloading a web-page, sorting my laundry, and reorganizing my 
hard-drive, I printed out the form-letter, signed it, and posted it off to the 
Commission.
With that one simple action I registered for the CRTC 'public-process' 95-56, 
concerned with 'universal affordable access' in the face of deregulation of the 
local market.
Little did I suspect at the time that over the following few months I would 
receive over 12 pounds in documents, thousands and thousands of pages, filled 
with lame legislative legalese.

The Stentor Companies, a consortium of the Canadian regional telecommunication 
monopolies (Bell, BCTel, MT&T, AGT, etc.) in parallel with this process have 
introduced a series of pricing proposals for local telephone service.
These include pay-per-call: 30 free calls a month, and each additional call is 
25 cents, with a $9 cap for heavy users, and pay-per-minute: 240 free minutes a 
month, with 25 cents for each additional five minutes with a $9 cap.
The phone companies proclaim that universal affordable access already exists, 
and market regulation will help ensure that it continues to exist. Market 
regulation of course is only possible with the introduction of usage sensitive 
pricing.
One of the key players in the process of telecommunication deregulation has been 
AGT (Alberta Government Telephone), who were privatized in 1990. Their 
submission in this proceeding was by far the largest, a full five and a half 
pounds, in which the corporation included paid studies by marketing groups as 
well as academics from MIT, Texas, and New Zealand, all praising the benefits of 
market regulation. The neo-conservatives in Alberta are as eager as any to 
dismantle the national public communications system.

In participating in this current process, it has been interesting  to witness 
the stark contrast between the interests of the industry/private sector, and the 
interests of the public.
Julia Shu of the Coalition for Public Information summed it up best by stating:
"Measured service, be it pay-by-the-minute or pay-by-the-call, is not a desired 
option by any segment of Canadians and will only further decrease the 
opportunity for financially disadvantaged Canadians to participate fully in the 
new knowledge-based society and economy." (Reply Submission of the Coalition for 
Public Information - 95-56)
Similarly the submissions made collectively by the Francophone Consumers' 
Association, the National Anti-Poverty Organization, and OneVoice, the National 
Senior's Network, also address the issues from a public interest perspective:
"Flat-rate local calling is considered an essential aspect of basic telephone 
service...
Stentor's position is inherently contradictory. On one hand, Stentor argues that 
usage-based charges are the main problem for low income customers. On the other 
hand, Stentor members offer usage-based charges as a 'budget' option for low 
income customers." (Submissions of: FNACQ/NAPO/One Voice)
Even to overemphasize the obvious the Public Interest Advocacy Centre released a 
study which stated that 85% of the Canadian public prefer flat-rate local 
telephone services.
However the Stentor Consortium has only responded with business as usual, with 
the complete rejection of the public's concerns:
"The status-quo is not an option. As the Commission and government have 
recognized local rates must move closer to costs in order to promote efficient 
and effective competition." (Stentor's Reply Submission)
Ironically the Stentor Consortium uses 'status-quo' in alluding to the defeated 
institution of the nation-state,  and with it the exodus of the national elite, 
as they scurry to join the ranks of the new world order, as "competition has 
achieved ideological status within the CRTC." (Winseck 1995)

When I attended the regional hearings in Toronto in late February, I was not 
shocked to find that most of the participants were white men in suits, in 
addition to myself being the youngest participant in the proceedings, perhaps by 
as much as ten years. Seemingly the only people who were not white males were 
those representing some of the public interest groups, effectively excluded from 
the final decisions anyway.
Robert McChesney in speaking on the recent decision-making process in US 
telecommunications legislation explained that:
"the debate over communications policy is restricted to elites and those with 
serious financial stakes in the outcome. It does not reflect well on the calibre 
of U.S. participatory democracy." (McChesney 1996)
I was able to sympathize as clearly the current CRTC 'public hearings' were in 
fact not public at all, but rather dominated by political and technical elites.
What was even more disturbing was that by introducing usage sensitive pricing 
these elites were subverting our democratic rights with consumer rights. 

Democratic rights are inherent and unlimited. You always have them, and you can 
always exercise them, at least in a democracy.
Consumer rights on the other hand are not inherent and they are limited. They 
are based upon the pay-per-use model, as your rights are determined in relation 
to your participation in the economic marketplace. Thus the more you pay the 
more you play.
The concept of one person one vote is replaced with one dollar one vote.
Consumer rights subvert democratic rights by introducing a quantitative factor, 
achieving a finite definition of our entitled rights, and limiting the extent to 
which we may exercise them.
Universal access to the technology will exist, but the use of the technology 
will be limited.
Democracy depends upon free and open access to information, which becomes 
severely limited, if not negated by proposed pay-per-use pricing structures.
Your right to speak still exists, but how much you get to say is determined by 
your economic standing. Sound familiar?

It is perhaps not surprising to reflect that the largest consumers of 
telecommunication services are the banks and big business. It therefore makes 
sense that they are also the biggest proponents of consumer empowerment.
These powerful interests need to deregulate the local telephone monopoly, 
because these companies will also be the largest consumers of new information 
based services, which can only be offered under 'market' regulation.
When the communications system was regulated by public institutions, universal 
access was ensured for all citizens. Each telecommunication service had to be 
available for all Canadians. With current market regulation, services such as 
'Intelligent Assistants' and video-conferencing are not considered universal, 
but available only for those who can afford them.
The current hearings for universal affordable local access are merely an 
appeasement, a token action to ensure that Canadians receive the minimum level 
of telecommunication services, while the societal elite benefit from a wide 
range of new, 'empowering and enabling' telecommunication services.

An editorial in the March 16 Globe And Mail made the argument that: "The CRTC no 
longer has much of an excuse for extensive regulation." The pay-per-view 
philosophy is synonymous with the market philosophy, which itself is synonymous 
with the technological philosophy. The editorial continued by stating: "The same 
system of control via documentation applies to pay-per-view services." Don't 
worry the consumers will tell us what they want, don't worry the market will fix 
it, don't worry technology will solve all of our problems. Why? Simply because: 
"They can refuse to buy it. They can turn it off. And soon, we can turn off 
content regulation by the CRTC as well."
It's interesting and ironic to also find the following passage, written by 
William Thorsell, the publisher of the Globe, on the same page as the editorial 
calling for the dismantling of the CRTC:
"In so doing, the media 'manufacture consent' in the public for the actions of 
the powerful, portraying the elite's selfish interests as public ideals around 
which good-hearted people can rally."

In participating in this process I have concluded that the deregulation of the 
local telephone market, is the final piece of the puzzle, in the 
neo-conservative agenda of replacing the Canadian nation-state with the 
trans-national corporate state. As we approach 1997, we witness the twilight of 
our sovereignty as a nation.
Yet it is at this point in the analysis that I welcome the words of my good 
friend Jay Terpstra, who keeps reminding me that "nothing's ever really changed. 
What matter does it make whether it's the corporate state or the nation state. 
In our struggle for freedom we still find ourselves fighting the state!"

Works Cited:
McChesney, Robert; "The Internet and U.S. Policy" in Journal Of Communication, 
Winter 1996, pp. 98-122
Winseck, Dwayne; "Power Shift? Towards a Political Economy of Canadian 
Telecommunications and Regulation" in Canadian Journal of Communications, Winter 
1995, pp. 81-106

EndNotes:

1) From Speach Given on February 8 1996
2) Jean Monty, Chairman and CEO of Northern Telecom



-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~
		The TAO Media Collective
	       http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQB1AwUBMVCdcOKx8nGMX3VRAQFzugL+P9I6vvyR3hsE3S2/Q44VE/klJqD7GEXb
W8wjyW9DcyauTsqW1ilBX9Mdr/6c4BWCtCtr0Ve93CZDnMbJktSjgsf2ZdT30zqe
q53DzpiDuv0EBoXTxAH/c203UPBC9M6Z
=xszN
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majordomo@lglobal.com with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
			Also check out:
		http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
