

     'we haven't seen any democracy, all we've seen is hypocrisy'
The Anarchives 				Volume 3 Issue 10
	The Anarchives			Published By
		The Anarchives		The Anarchy Organization
			The Anarchives	tao@lglobal.com

		Send your e-mail address to get on the list
		Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--			America's
             /  /  \  \			Invisible
         ---|--/----\--|---		Terrorists
             \/      \/			
             /\______/\			by Will Hart
					LGard@gnn.com
                      
	
	In the summer of 1994 anti-abortion activist Paul Hill killed Dr. 
John Britton and security guard James Barrett in a brutal broad daylight 
attack. The murderer, a former Christian minister, had exchanged his 
Bible for a shotgun after publicly advocating the execution of 
abortionists as an act of "justifiable homicide".	
    In the fall, abortion clinics in Chico and Redding were set on fire 
on the same night. Dido Hasper, Executive Director of the Chico Feminist 
Women's Health Center, considers these to be terrorist acts aimed at 
shutting the clinics down. 	
	Nevertheless, according to a report released by the State 
Department on May 5th, 1995: "There were no cases of domestic terrorism 
in the US in 1994." 		
	The FBI is the agency responsible for the study the State 
Department based its conclusions on. What then does this agency make of 
John Salvi's bloody two-day rampage at the end of the year? Like Paul 
Hill - who made sure to aim his shotgun at Britton's head knowing the 
doctor wore a protective vest - Salvi's was certainly a cold blooded and 
thoroughly premeditated act. 
	
	But was it an act of terrorism? 
	According to witnesses, the murderer coolly stepped up to 
the front desk at an abortion clinic on Boston's Beacon Street, and 
asked, "Is this planned parenthood?" After receptionist Shannon Lowery, 
25, replied affirmatively, Salvi pulled out his semi-automatic rifle and 
shot the receptionist dead. Then he spun around and sprayed a fusillade 
of bullets at anyone in the vicinity.   	
	The 22 year old anti-abortion protestor replayed the deadly 
scenario at another clinic ten minutes later. The second execution went 
very much like the first. Fortunately, a guard returned fire causing 
Salvi to flee the scene.
	Undeterred, he was at it again the next day. As authorities in 
Massachusetts mounted a manhunt for the killer, reports came in that 
another fatal shooting had occurred at a clinic in Norfolk, VA. The 
self-appointed executioner was eventually caught, but not before leaving 
a bloody multi-state trail behind. No one could deny that Salvi and Hill 
were murderers. Still, according to FBI investigators, they could not be 
cast as terrorists. Why?  	
	Perhaps a more fundamental question should be answered first. 
What is terrorism? Websters defines the word quite simply:" The 
systematic use of terror especially as a means of coercion."
	The FBI uses a more complex definition:" Unlawful use of force or 
violence by a group (two or more individuals) to coerce government or 
individual citizens in furtherance of a political objective." 
	In 1993 and '94, five abortion clinic killings occurred 
nationwide. However, these grisly numbers only tell part of the story. In 
addition to the double murder, Hill also wounded Jane Barret. Salvi's 
final toll included 2 dead and 5 wounded. In 1993, Michael Griffin killed 
Dr. David Gunn. That same year Rachel "Shelley" Shannon added to the 
victim list by wounding Dr. George Tiller in Wichita, Kansas.
     Hill was an outspoken abortion opponent who had confined himself to 
harsh words and clinic demonstrations before he decided assassinating 
abortion workers was the only way to achieve his objectives. Salvi was a 
pro-life demonstrator who drove around with a picture of a dead foetus 
plastered on his truck prior to becoming a lethal fanatic. Shannon jumped 
from non-violent protests to a series of militant actions that included 
sabotaging the Chico clinic in 1993 and then shooting Dr. Tiller. 
	There is a clear pattern of escalating militancy prevalent 
in these cases. Equally important is the influence that radical 
anti-abortion leaders and religious extremists apparently had on 
motivating these individuals. 
	In recent years the rhetoric of radical abortion foes has 
grown more and more inflammatory. Several years ago, Matt Trewhella, 
founder of Missionaries to the Preborn, spoke of arming his followers and 
training them to carry out anti-abortion violence. Randell Terry, founder 
of Operation Rescue, proclaimed, " We're going to shame them, humiliate 
them, embarrass them, disgrace them and expose them until they quit."   	
	Nevertheless, Bill Carter of the FBI Public Affairs Office says 
that Hill, Salvi, Trewalla, Terry, Shannon, et al. are not terrorists. 
The reason is that their actions do not meet the FBI's terrorist 
criteria. "The actions were isolated incidents carried out by individuals 
acting alone, " Carter claims.     
	If a conspiracy involving two or more perpetrators is the 
sticking point, why is the Unabomber being treated as a terrorist?
	While the FBI and Department of Justice juggle semantics,
abortion foes have resorted to every type of terrorist tactic - verbal 
threats, physical harassment, assault, vandalism, fire bombings, murder - 
with increasing frequency.     	 
	Clinic directors nationwide have reported a mounting tide of 
death threats. Dido Hasper's experience is typical of many abortion 
workers across the country. " In 1993, we received a series of death 
threats from Ronald Walters. Through a lucky fluke he was eventually 
captured, prosecuted and sentenced. After his release the court ordered 
him to stay away from abortion clinics but he was recently arrested again 
for taking part in a blockade in Sacramento."   
	
	The main political objective of radical anti-abortionists  
has been made abundantly clear by its leaders: Stop abortion by any 
means.  
	In addition to assassinations and firebombings, clinics (Chico's 
included) have been doused in acid and staff threatened in their homes. 
Physicians and their families have become targets of psychological as 
well as physical terrorism. 
	After staking out Dr. Susan Wicklund's home, The Lambs of Christ 
stalked her and her daughter. In 1992, Rev. Robert Shenck adopted the 
tactic of shadowing abortion providers. The campaign included making and 
distributing handbills that stated "Dr. X Kills Children" as well as red 
banners emblazoned with "Abortionists Eat Here" for use at restaurants 
targeted doctors frequented.    
	The tactics of terror have achieved their intended effects. Many 
abortion providers have quit practicing. A '93 survey of some 150 
clinics, conducted by the Feminist Majority, revealed 
that one-fourth had lost a staff member as a result of anti-abortion 
violence. Hospitals wishing to avoid the battle have stopped offering 
abortion training classes. Clinics have closed. According to The National 
Abortion Federation, 83% of our counties lack doctors who can perform 
abortions. 
	For those that choose to remain in the fray, life can be grim. 
Practitioners are forced to adopt a siege mentality to combat 
anti-abortionists' harassment and terrorism. Dr. Warren Hern works behind 
bulletproof glass ever since five shots were 
fired through his window in 1992. 
	Physician Damon Stutes, owner of northern Nevada's only 
abortion clinic, says this about the FBI's report:  " I didn't put my gun 
away when I heard the government say that there was no terrorism in this 
country in 1994."
	Stutes carries a 9 mm Berreta to work. He also wears a 
bullet-proof vest and conducts his medical practice under the watchful 
eye of remote controlled video scanners that monitor the facility. 
	" The instigators of abortion clinic violence know how to fire 
these marginal personalities off. Americans might not want to believe it 
but a widespread conspiracy to terrorize physicians and patients has been 
going on for a decade, " the doctor said.
	Dr. Stutes was forced to build a new clinic and turn to guns and 
high tech surveillance after his former downtown Reno clinic was fire 
bombed four times. " The pro-life movement is 100% responsible for these 
acts of terrorism. They are the ones breaking the law, destroying 
property and killing people!" Stutes proclaims. 
	Operation Rescue laid down the gauntlet 3 years ago when the 
organization's leaders switched their strategy. They decided to turn 
their focus from fighting to end legalized abortions to driving doctors 
out of business. That's when Matt Trewalla, Randell Terry and other 
leaders turned up the rhetorical heat.         	
	Others in the anti-abortion movement went a lot further than 
fiery words. The case of Rachel "Shelley" Shannon points out why 
the government needs to get a grip on homegrown terrorism.   
	A manual attributed to the Army of God (A.O.G.) was found 
buried in Shannon's backyard while she was being held pending trial for 
the attempted murder of Dr. Tiller. The pamphlet offered this advice to 
sick fellow travellers: "If terminally ill, use your final months to 
torch clinics; by the time the authorities identify you...you will have 
gone to your reward."
	 Ms. Shannon took these suggestions to heart. In 1992, she set 
off a stink bomb at the Chico clinic. Shannon also hit Stutes' Reno 
clinic with butyric acid before shooting Dr. Tiller. 	 A number of 
shocking revelations came out the week ending June 9th regarding 
Shannon's ongoing anti-abortion crime spree during '92-'93. In the early 
stages of a 10 year incarceration, the fanatical anti-abortionist 
recently admitted to being involved in 10 acts of sabotage. They run the 
gamut from vandalism to arson against clinics in Oregon, California, and 
Nevada.
 	This case raises some disturbing questions. Why wasn't the 
FBI able to identify and apprehend Shelley Shannon before she 
shot Dr. Tiller? The public record shows they were aware of her criminal 
activities and transient lifestyle at least as early as 1992. The same 
can be said of Paul Hill. A year before he shot-gunned two people to 
death, Hill collaborated with other activists in signing a joint 
call-to-arms statement declaring that Michael Griffin had committed 
"justifiable homicide" when he killed Dr. David Gunn.  
	Were Shelley Shannon and Paul Hill invisible to FBI 
investigators because they can't seem to believe that otherwise law 
abiding Americans who profess to be God-fearing Christians can also be 
terrorists? They have no such trouble with radical Moslems, Animal Rights 
advocates, the Unabomber and environmental extremists.   	
	Attorney General Janet Reno created the Clinic Violence Task 
Force after the Florida shootings last summer. The Task Force was 
supposed to determine whether there was a conspiracy against abortion 
clinics as many abortion workers contended. It followed on the heels of 
similar FBI probes into Trewalla's and other anti-abortion groups. But 
conspiracy is a very difficult thing to prove in court and no conclusions 
have been forthcoming. 
	At the same time, US marshals were deployed to stem the rising 
tide of violence at several dozen clinics. However, by fall the number of 
marshals was dramatically reduced on the grounds that the threat had 
subsided. Then came Salvi. In California the only US marshals that 
accompany a doctor are the ones that shuttle from the Chico to Redding 
clinics. 
	How many more potential Hills, Shannons and Salvis are out there 
plotting yet another fire bombing or assassination attempt?  That's a 
question authorities need to answer. Yet how can they when these 
individuals remain invisible? 
	 In the final analysis, it's the government's job to enforce the 
law and protect all of us, including abortion clinic workers and their 
patients. The consensus among providers is that anti-abortion terrorism 
has created a health care crisis that demands immediate federal 
intervention. 
 	Dido Hasper has nothing but praise for local police. 
Nevertheless, she describes the national situation this way: "Every 
abortion provider feels the effects of the terrorist conspiracy being 
waged by radical anti-abortionists every day regardless of how the 
government sees it."	 




-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~
		The TAO Media Collective
	       http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~



--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majordomo@lglobal.com with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
			Also check out:
		http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
