
                       :..::..File 2 Of 14.::..:
                       :.Dextromethorphan Trip.:
                       :.:.:..By DrnknMnky.:.:.:

<*> MY FIRST DXM TRIP
    by DrnknMnky

 "Use your powers for good, not for evil.  Well, you
  can use them for evil if you want, but it voids
  your warranty."

Dec. 1, 1998

Subject:        Male
                140lb (63kg)
                19 yrs

Location:       Tiny dorm room in SK, Canada
                Bathroom across the hall

Prev Exp:       Pot, oil, alcohol

Dosage:         150ml bottle of Delsym DXM
                Ingredients are dextromethorphan polistirex (900mg)

At 5:30p I ate a ham sandwich and some cookies.  I didn't wasn't sure
if I was going to do this tonight or not. I finished reading the DXM
FAQ and about 200 reports, so I figured I was ready.

   At 7:00 I diluted about 1/2 the bottle (450mg) of Delsym in some
water and gulped it down. It was actually pretty good. I started up a
journal to record what I was feeling. I also took a few puffs of
Berotec (asthma inhalor), just in case.

   I got out some CDs and a blacklight, my stomach gurgled a bit and
felt a bit tight, but not nauseous at all. I played around some more on
the computer.

   At 8:15 I started feeling lightheaded, but by 8:30 it went away. I 
decided to finish off the bottle, so I now had 900mg in me.

   At about 9:00 I started feeling drunk, goofy, then mellow and nice.
By 10:00 I was feeling very stoned and time was slow. I talked on IRC a
bit and took out my contacts because they were bugging me. I laid on
the floor and looked at the ceiling, listening to music. I was
listening to Tool, but I took it out and put in underworld. The stucco
ceiling looked all sparkly with the blacklight on. After enjoying the
buzz for about an hour, I had to go to the bathroom.  I felt ok enough
to handle it. Unfortunately, I haven't been stoned in a long time and
forgot how to handle it in public.  

   I opened the door to go across the hall to the bathroom. There were
two guys standing about 5 feet down the hall talking about something.
Don't ask me why but I did panic and sorta jumped across the hall into
the bathroom and shut the door. Later, when I came out, they were gone.

   For some strange reason I had an urge to phone my girlfriend. She
had no clue I was doing anything like this. She is straight, doesn't
even smoke.

Luckily, she is very open minded. We talked for about 15min, and then I
told her what I was doing. (This stuff must be truth serum!) She was a
bit scared, but I told her I had researched it and everything. I
started to explain the reason I was doing this, etc. when I peaked.

   I don't remember much of what happened then. Lots of CEV. Energy 
clouds, flowing strands of colour, everything. A big weird triangle,
blue, green, black, pink...

   Somehow we started talking about life, the universe, and everything
over the phone, I was definetly 'at oneing' what I felt & saw I told
her, what she said back got incorporated into what I was seeing, we
started connecting on a spiritual/mental/psychic level. I could see the
two of us as big jellyfish made of energy (like Abyss).  I could see
the whole network of consciousness, and God was a huge blue stand of
energy that connected everything together. It was cool. It was
definetly a religious experience, and I'm not even that religious. One
thing was clear to me, however, there is a supreme power.

   "I have no idea what happened - blue green mesh mold network - 
                                                 connected - GOD wow."

One thing that I realized, is that everything was planned out through
fate. Everything from the day I met her, to when I found out about DXM,
to this day that I decided to try it, was utterly planned out.

   About 1 1/2 hrs (1hr after I peaked) into the conversation I started
coming down enough to ask "what the fuck just happened?". Both of us
still don't know, but both of our perceptions of life have changed
drastically.

   We talked for 2 1/2 hrs.  That's going to be one massive phonebill
:( After I hung up, I felt extreme deja vu, like I knew this place...

   "This is the real reality, this is where I live."

   I think I laid in bed now, and just thought. No more CEV's. I got
up to go to the bathroom.

   At 1:44 AM I was "walking around like a tank" (I think I was walking
around my room on my toes for a bit). When I walked down the hall to
the second bathroom (first was being used) I felt like I was walking
like a toy soldier, sticking my feet way out. Seemed like I was in a
Busta Rhymes video.

   My pupils were huge, and my left was bigger than the right (doesn't
this mean hemmorhaging or something).

   At 2:00, I laid in bed and thought.  I might have drifted in and
out of sleep.  I noticed my eyes were taking 2-3 sec. to look at things
after I looked at them.  Like, I'd try to look at the desk, and then my
eyes would slowly track up to the desk.  I think I fell asleep at about
4:00.

   At 7:00am I woke up and noticed my eyes were still doing the same
thing. Still pretty stoned.

   At 12:00 I woke up again. Everything was back to normal. I had a
slight headache that went away as soon as I drank something. For the
rest of the day, I've felt sort of warm and nice, and more solid and
grounded. I haven't eaten all day, but I'm not really hungry. I just
want to lay in bed and read.

   I've talked to my GF, and our relationship is definetly on a higher
level now, so that worked out pretty good (don't try this at home).

   It was definetly a good trip. I'm thinking mid/high second plateau.
Most of the things I saw came from things either one of us said. I
didn't lose any idea of identity or location. I didn't get nauseous
(but I have a very strong stomach), no itching, etc. I came down with
some new perspectives, beliefs and a stronger relationship with my GF.

   Will I do it again? Probably, but not for a while, I have finals,
etc. coming up. This seems for me like something every once in a while
when I'm feeling like exploring.

DrnknMnky

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
