
                       :..::..File 4 Of 14.::..:
                       :..Forgery And Tracing..:
                       :.:..:.By Mob Boss.:..:.:

<*> The wonderful and evil world of e-mail
<*> The art of e-mail forging and tracing explained in one simple text

This is my second article on hacking my first being the ethics of a
true hacker which is available on my web site at
http://mobboss.dragx.cx. This article will touch on the subject of mail
forgery and tracing. Please beware any info learned this article is to
be used only for the purposes of information and not wrong doing. The
Mob Boss will in no way be responsible for your stupidity. Now on with
the article. Now there has been several guides written about this on
the internet yet a lot of people still don't understand or haven't read
about it yet. Most of the guides fail to show you how to find a willing
server as well since that is the major problem these days.

 I. Forgery

 - E-mail forging, how is this done?

	This is quite easy to do as long as you can type and boot up
telnet. Telnet is a program for connecting to remote hosts and it ships
with Windows 9x and all distros of UNIX. To run this program simply
go to run then telnet or the DOS prompt then simply type telnet while
in the c:\windows. That's simple enough and I hope that every newbie
hacker who is running windows becomes good friends with telnet because
if you want to ever want to hack your going to do it through it telnet
that is for sure when you are running Windows for your main operating
system. Now the second step is connecting to a remote host, the
computer you want to do this from. Now I will almost guarantee on your
first shot you will not get to forge mail your first time because over
the years security has become better and sysadmins are stopping the
routing of mail. Anyways, click file and then remote host. This brings
up a box in which you choose a port and a host. Now for port notice
that a default value of telnet is in there. Thats' the equivalent of
port 23. That is used to physically log into a system such as into your
ISP shell account which allows you to give UNIX commands to one of your
ISP's computers.

We won't be working with that default port, the telnet one, we will be
working with port 25 the standard SMTP port which is the port that
sends out mail. This is the port which mail forging, mail bombers, and
those sendmail exploits you see so much of occur on. So lets begin by
choosing a host and then a port 25. Now if this doesn't work on the
first computer don't get discouraged that's the best trait a hacker can
display, persistence. Now when we telnet in we will be displayed with a
welcome message which will have the computer's name and hostname. It
will be followed by the daemon software they are using usually
sendmail, which runs on a UNIX platform and is to say the least an
intruders best friend in gaining root. Now the second step is to greet
the computer (they have feelings too you know):

helo Dreamer.Foobar.com

Then the computer will say hello and will display where they logged you
from. The next thing to do is to specify a return address. For this put
in any god damn thing you want, remember you are in control
muhahahahahah:

mail from: President@whitehouse.gov

Now if everything goes according to plan and the machine allows routing
well then bingo you won the booby prize. But were getting ahead of
ourselves there is still another crucial step. We have to specify a
recipient which will tell us whether or not this computer wants to be
our friend or not:

rcpt to: Lewinsky@interns.com

Now if you get a message such as "Sorry routing not allowed" well then
you're out of luck and move onto the next machine. But if it excepts it
then you have found that trusting machine. Notice on the different
machines how the message, "Routing denied", can vary in its tone and
pleasantness. Anyways on to the next step the body of the message: data

This tells the computer you are ready to write the message. It will
then say enter your message and end by hitting enter, then a period by
its self and enter.

Hey Monica, my place or yours?

Then it will say message excepted for delivery. Just enter the command
exit and it will close you out of the system. It's that simple. 

 - What the hell is this any use for?

This is one of those most basic and helpful hacks you can learn.
Whether you aspire to be an evil criminal, or in the words of Carolyn
Meinel, a whitehat hacker then you need to know this. It gives you some
practice in a command line atmosphere where all the real hacking takes
place, very little is or can be done in a graphical windows interface.
Now the other thing this is good for is if you are a eager beaver when
it comes to social engineering. The wonderful things that could be done
with an e-mail appearing to be from system administration. Another
handy thing is that this can be used as an impressive trick to show
your friends who are clueless in AOL la la land. They'll find this very
impressive. If you have ever used a mail bomber maybe you'll remember
it asking for a server and it allowed you to send e-mail from any 
address. This is all because it uses the same principle that we have
learned today. As you can see this is quite useful for a variety of
things and is something every inspiring hacker should learn.

 - WHAT THE FUCK!? It won't let me route or something?

Ok now, calm down. The reason is because the sysadmin at the computer
you were trying to telnet into and forge from is smarter then the
average bear. But this is the MOB BOSS your talking too so of course
I'll give you some hints on how to find open boxes. First of all don't
attempt this on any military computers all you 31337 hacker buffs,
unless you enjoy being interrogated (though I should write an article
on that). Now after you narrow that down try to forget about government
computers like courthouses and state agencies. Although there are some
good boxes, it's a unnessecary risk. Your best bet will definitely be
*.edu servers. Colleges and Universities have the most lazy security
although I have found some very secure computers at those places of
learning. A good place to start looking is on a search engine such as
altavista (www.altavista.com). From there, pour yourself a big cup of
coffee and prepare for some searching. Look up universities and
colleges. There are so many variations you can do, its pathetic. Now
make a nice long list of them and then once you have a fair amount
hosts start telneting.

This might be a happy or discouraging moment but no matter what don't
give up. Persistence will beat all, at least most of the time. Take a
look at the versions of sendmail, those computers that are paying off
are usually old dusty versions huh? Anyways I have found this the best
way to look. Now these can be used for a variety of purposes.
Mail bombing and mail forging alike but under all circumstances be sure
not to use one server too much. This can piss of a sysadmin royally
especially if you and a buddy are being idiots and using his computers
to mailbomb constantly. If you do idiotic things like this expect your
ISP to find out and kick your ass off. Now since good ISP's are hard to
come by these days this might be a royal pain in the ass so watch
yourself. Now once you have a few computers which route go trade with
friends who do the same or in chat rooms. Expect that they'll want
something in return though. Nothing is free.

II. Tracing e-mail 

 - What's the point?

Well ever want to get revenge on that spammer or the schmuck who
bombed you well tracing the messages back to the idiots ISP is a good
start. Now also I have had many attempts on my accounts with trojans
and viruses but once I spotted the mini intruders I traced it back to
the ISP and informed his sysadmin. Never had anything else from him
again hahahahahahaha. Also its the best way to scare a stalker or an
abuser. Those threatening e-mails may leave some people helpless but we
are hackers so we take action. The hunted becomes the hunter. This can
all be done by turning an e-mail and tracing it.

 - Ok sounds good so how is it done?
	
First step is to check out the full header. I am way too lazy to tell
you how to do this because its in the manual but I'll tell you right
now on web based e-mail the option for full headers is usually in
options although on hotmail I hit reply and the header is right there.
Ask your tech support people if you can't figure it out yourself.
Anyways in that header there is a variety of info there that we want to
know. There are two main things you want to know though. The biggest is
going to be mail received from thing. Its here where you want to look
for an IP address. One you have that its time to DNS that. If you have
a shell account go to it and do nslookup IP addy. Once you get the
servers name you'll do a whois query. Hopefully your target has a small
ISP or university account. If this is true you will know his state and
possibly town. Using this info casually in an e-mail to him will make
him worry.

Also you will know have the power to inform the sysadmin of the IP addy
and exact time it was sent. This is so simple yet very few people do
it. My suggestion is to look at all full headers you can. It will give
you addresses to telnet into look around and will also give you the
power to know exactly who the son of a bitch is. Now if you want to be
really slick you might have one of those Yahoo accounts and will be
informed immediately of any new mail which was just sent then you'll
have his current IP hahahahaha. This might be the perfect time to
attack. Teach the guy a lesson if you must or turn him in its up to
you. Practice this techniques you never know when it'll come in handy.

mafia_man777@yahoo.com
http://mobboss.dragx.cx

By the Mob Boss
Co-edited by Dragoonx

This has been a publication written by THE MOB BOSS, he is in no way
responsible for the accuracy or results from the use of info in this
article. Anything done is totally done at the users discretion. THE MOB
BOSS in no way or form supports, aids, participates in the act of
criminal hacking or phreaking. Any ideas, beliefs, and information
gathered in all publications published by THE MOB BOSS is strictly for
informational purposes only.THE MOB BOSS copyright 1999 all rights
reserved.

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
