"I encountered an article that denies some facts I wrote and I am publishing it so 
you can pick your side.....IMHO it doesn't convince me but your here to decide."

   Atlienz
atlienz@default.net-security.org



Here is the article writen by Blue Boar (BlueBoar@thievco.com):
(reprinted with permission)

Thievco - Trendy Security - Rant #3 
1/20/99 
Most of the people who are going to read this are aware of the popularity that 
security issues have enjoyed recently. For the most part, this is good. This 
means that (given a flashy enough exploit) security problems will get popular 
press, vendors will be publicly embarrassed, and all of us get high paying jobs. 

Of course, as with anything getting press, there are opportunities for scams. 
These scams include bad "security" software, articles offering bad security 
advice, consultants preying on clueless customers, ISPs claiming to have more 
secure networks, etc.. 
I won't comment (at this time) about everything mentioned in the previous two 
paragraphs. In fact, those two paragraphs cover nearly our entire job as 
hackers. Our job as hackers is to expose the scams via the popular press. 
End plug for hacker work. I'm writing this today because of two things I keep 
reading about, which as far as I'm concerned, are scams. These are biometrics 
and public access terminals. 
>From a security point-of-view, if these two technologies gain popularity, we're 
going to be in a lot of trouble. 
First, Biometrics: 
For those who aren't familiar with the concept of biometrics, it's the practice 
of using a measurement of one's body part(s) as an authentication mechanism. For 
example, a fingerprint reader or retina scanner. This measurement becomes your 
password. 
The idea is that at your installation, all the workstations have a finger reader 
or eyeball scanner. You walk up to a workstation, door, or whatever, scan your 
part, and in you go. 
Spot the problem yet? When you scan your body part, those measurements are 
converted into some sort of digital representation. That string of bits that is 
the digital representation is a STATIC PASSWORD. Worse, it's a static password 
that you can't change, or perhaps can only change a limited number of times. 
With a biometric string, there is no concept of a "bad" or "good" static 
password. All you have is the string of bits that represent your body 
measurement. 
Keep in mind that this measurement is NOT necessarily secret, either. I'm not 
even talking about the James Bond scenarios where they lift your prints from a 
discarded soda can, or chloroform you, measure every orifice, and replace 
everything in your house with an exact duplicate. 
Think about what happens when this starts to become REALLY popular. The bank 
wants to scan your eyeball to get cash out of the ATM. The DMV wants your prints 
to get a driver's license. The grocery store wants to scan your face to accept 
your check. Various government agencies already fingerprint and photograph you 
and keep a permanent record if you get picked up, conviction or not. 
Exactly how bad would this be? Imagine using your social security number as your 
only password, on every system you have access to. 
Why am I so worried about this? Because I'm seeing many, many people just assume 
that biometrics are the ultimate authentication mechanism. I'm not just talking 
about the clueless people either. I subscribe to a number of security mailing 
lists, and I'm shocked at the number of people, who I think should know better, 
make statements like: "Well, OTP cards are OK for now.. until we can widely 
deploy biometrics." 
NO, NO, NO! An OTP card with a halfway decent implementation is BETTER! 
There is a general fallacy in the information security world. People, even 
experts, tend to believe that something less familiar is more secure. I don't 
know the psychology behind it, but I've seen it many times. That's why people 
used to insist that NT was more secure than unix. Now NT is familiar, and we 
know better. 
So, I'm screaming about this biometrics mess because I don't want to see us go 
down that path. I don't want us to spend 10 years proving that it wasn't such a 
great idea. 
Now, having said all that, let me take care of some of the pro-biometric 
arguments right up front. 
Do I think biometrics are completely useless? No. Biometrics are useless across 
a network, or on a system out of my personal control. Where WOULD they work? I 
would use biometrics as a PIN replacement on some sort of sealed security device 
that I own and control. For example, an OTP card. I would be happy using my 
fingerprint on my OTP card instead of punching in a PIN code. 
Why? Because the biometric info itself (or a hash, or any product of it) doesn't 
pass to another system. No one else has to have a record of my print. 
I would NOT use it as a PIN replacement at my bank, because I would have no 
choice about my biometric "PIN" matching at the bank and anywhere else. 
Second, Public-Access Terminals: 
I've also been reading a number of articles about "some day in the future" when 
public kiosks with Internet access are available everywhere, and you don't even 
need to take your laptop with you anymore. You simply plug in your smartcard, 
and read your e-mail, in the middle of the mall, at your hotel room, etc.. 
This is so wrong, it's not funny. 
These things are called web kiosks, public access terminals, e-mail stations or 
something else. I'll call them PATs. 
You're using a terminal that you have no idea how secure it is, who owns it, or 
what's been done to it. 
1: Payment issues. Today, in the United States, there is really no such thing as 
a smart card, at least not as a mass-market payment device. For this purpose, we 
use credit cards. A couple of times now I've used PATs, once in a bar in Boston, 
and once at an airport lounge in Chicago. All I had to do was swipe a credit 
card, and I had Internet access. No PIN code, no typing in the cardholder name, 
just swipe and go. All you need is physical possession of a credit card. 
All of the usual credit-card-over-the-net issues apply. Maybe more so, since 
this PAT has been physically accessible to many people before you. Some PATs may 
be on the Internet full-time. All the better to break into them remotely and 
collect credit cards. Many of them run Windows, so development of an appropriate 
trojan or exploit should be quite do-able. 
I'm not one of those people who is super paranoid about using credit cards over 
the Internet. Credit cards have the best fraud protection of any payment 
mechanism. If you are paranoid about that sort of thing, you'll want to stay 
away from PATs. 
2: Privacy issues. So far, these PATs provide only public Internet service. 
Still, this is a problem if you're, say, a Hotmail user. Any web site you visit 
with any sensitive information, such as a username and password, may be 
vulnerable. It may be vulnerable because of someone breaking into the machine 
and monitoring all activity, or something as stupid as the next guy checking the 
history table in the browser. Same for telnet, POP, FTP or any protocol. Don't 
forget about the 100 
people standing around in viewing distance of the terminal either.  What happens 
when there are PATs that start advertising themselves as "VPN ready".  Just 
swipe your card, punch in your password (or your fingerprint) and you're 
connected to the corporate net. 
If it's something you wouldn't want the entire world to see, don't access it 
from a PAT. 
3: Public Attack Terminals. Another meaning for PAT. These public terminals are 
to crackers what payphones are to (evil) phreaks. An anonymous place to attack 
from. 
How do I know? The company I work at puts on a number of trade shows each year. 
For the last couple of years, we have provided Internet access via banks of PCs 
at these shows. I have a class C that I drag around the world for these shows 
that I use for this. These machines aren't firewalled, lest it break some new 
Internet media toy. They can be reloaded quickly if hacked. 
My name is on the in-addr.arpa whois for this class C. Every time, for the last 
few shows, I get a call from someone wanting to know why I'm attacking them. 
Seems that someone at the show is trying out IMAP exploits, doing network scans, 
etc... By the time the message reaches everyone, the attacker is long gone. 
The best I can do is explain to the attacked party what that network is used 
for. Most people are very understanding, and they simply block that class C. 
Conclusion: 
As someone who is concerned about security, you need to do what you should 
always be doing, apply some critical thinking to the use of new technologies. 
Nothing that I've pointed out here is really news. Anyone who would bother to 
read this could figure it out himself or herself. Occasionally though, I find 
that I need to have something pointed out to me to make it obvious. Sometimes, 
you need all of the problems brought together in one spot to really see how bad 
an idea something is.



Default newsletter (http://default.net-security.org)
