Biometrics security devices

by Atlienz
atlienz@default.net-security.org


Biometrics are unique biological characteristics which distinguish one person from another.
Biometric security is based on identification and verification of a user's unique biological 
traits.

Biometric security is a key component for security systems of the future. There are 
many biometrics including fingerprints, retinal scans and facial scans. However, speaker 
verification of users through their unique, individual voices, is the most flexible and 
efficient and least expensive way to deploy biometric security within a large volume, 
distributed user group.

Your voice is distinctive to you alone; it can't be stolen or duplicated. Any time a user 
wants to sign-on to the system, a Voicerecognition device prompts the individual for a short 
pass phrase of random digits and then tests to see if this individual is who s/he claims to be.

The system is robust enough that it can recognize authorized users even when they have a cold. 
With prompting there is no voice-password to forget. Prompting also protects this technology 
against replay attacks from hackers with digital recorders.

One of the main things is that it does not require only a standard telephone or PC-based 
microphone, both readlily available and inexpensive compared to other biometric devices.


Biological characteristics cannot be forgotten, misplaced, copied, borrowed, lost, stolen, 
or otherwise compromised.


Reasons for biometrics
----------------------
- To ensure safety and security
- To prevent stolen security badges, licenses, or property
- To prevent someone from using false id badges or licenses
- To prevent someone from stealing another person's identity. This is becoming a big problem  in the US where people are using other people's social security numbers, credit cards  numbers, long distance calling cars numbers, and bank account numbers 
- To prevent computer hackers from invading and tampering with email i+or internet accounts



Finger-image scanners
---------------------

Encrypted finger scans (not prints) are being considered for use by government administrators 
(not the police) to make it easier for people eligible for social assistance to receive their 
benefits quickly, and to protect their privacy in the process. The use of suitable encryption 
technology can protect privacy because the encrypted finger scan does not function as a unique
identifier. It is only to be used for the purpose of authenticating eligibility for services or 
benefits, therefore, it doesn't stigmatize those involved.
Finger-image identification is fast, affordable and non-intrusive.

Fingertip patterns   99+ percent
Eye patterns         96  percent
Voice                94  percent
Hand geometry        90  percent


Retinal scans
-------------

Retinal scans take the iris and blood vessels fromt hte back of the eye to identify someone.
the retinal scanner can take a picture of a person up to 3 feet away, and the user doesn't have 
to interact with the device. Retinal scans have been used in high level security areas, which 
include military sites and bank facilities. Retinal scans are the best biometric devices with 
no false rates.


Facial scans
------------

Facial recognition is very secure and efficient, because the image is not stored.Therefore 
computer hackers can not try to relocate the facial image to break into other people's accounts.
It is also very safe and secure since it has a very low false reject rate. It is very fast since 
it takes less than one second to recognize you. Even eyeglasses, make-up, or facial hair doesnt 
interfere with recognizing your face.


Speech recognition
------------------

Speech recognition is used in offices, labs, and banks. it is specifically focused on the 
distinct characteristics of the voice, which can not be impersonated. Impersonators focus 
on human hearing and do a bad job. Speech verification uses the biological and behavioral 
factors of te voice, which can not be impersonated.



Methods of verifications
------------------------

Verification is a "one-to-one" comparison that compares the new identifier against 
a previously generated identifier stored in the database or on an ID card. (The 
stored identifier is selected on the basis of other information, such as a name or
account number.) If the new identifier matches the old, the person is who he or she 
claims to be.

Certification is a "one-to-many" comparison that compares the new identifier against
all of the identifiers in the database. It is most often used to certify that the 
person at the workstation is not known to the system under a different name. Should 
a match be found, the system typically returns - for review and investigation - a 
name, account number, and possibly photograph and replica signature of person 
associated wuth the previously stored identifier.

Enrollment is the process of entering a new identifier into the database, usually 
along with other information about a client, customer or applicant. Enrollment 
typically begins with a one-to-many certification match to make sure that the 
enrollee is not in the database under another name. If no match is found the new 
finger image identifier - and the associated information - are added to the database.

The use of minutiae extraction software rather than the usual template method makes 
large scale databases possible (comparable in size to law enforcement Automatic 
Fingerprint Identification Systems) and simplifies future expansion.

The software computes a 1024-byte finger-image identifier record (FIIR). The relative
ly small size of the finger-image-identifier data record means that modern workstations, networks and desktop computers can perform real-time validation, certification and 
enrollment in most identification solutions.

The FIIR can be compressed to 432 bytes for solutions requiring one-to-one validation
and can easily be stored, for example on magnetic strip, dataglyph or other "chipless"
smart cards thereby considerably reducing costs.



Default newsletter (http://default.net-security.org)
