
                       :..::..File 3 of 10.::..:
                       :..:.Ten Secure Steps.:.:
                       :..::.:..By Byte..:.::..:

<*> Byte --- byte@cork.crosswinds.net

This is an idea on how to learn more about security, if you rush these
steps, you will be just fooling yourself, IT WILL TAKE TIME, the sooner
you face that the less mistakes you will make.

1. Get a UNIX O/S, Linux is the best to start with, however after time
you will soon find many drawbacks, but its a very good start to a UNIX
o/s.

2. Mess about with localhost, basically teach yourself to be an admin,
install patches and secure your own box.

3. Find out about networking, get a PPP Internet account if you are
interested in hacking things on the Internet. While your are doing this
learn more about networks, services routers daemons.

4. Use IRC, something like using Undernet and going to #hackphreak
is a good start, dont ask things like, how do I have a .mil or how can
I rip off my friends credit card.

5. Now getting one or two ORA books would really help you on your ways.
Read man pages and just make sure you know your way around a UNIX box
like you've known it all your life.

6. At this point, learning how to program is very useful (but not
essential) Pascal is easy to learn and will help you understand
programming, however C is OK to learn and you can use it in your
hacking, you wont be able to use Pascal.

7. Now move to Free/Open/Net BSD, which are allot closer the real UNIX
O/S. Solaris, since it is free now, is also a good option.

8. Go get all the papers you can find, not just hacking ones, but ones
on security, http://www.rootshell.com and go to the papers section.
Read them all and MAKE SURE YOU UNDERSTAND them. Subscribe to Bugtraq.

9. By now you may well know enough to hack, go find some host on a 
collage, just as a test of your skill, try and find out everything 
about it, this would mean doing traceroutes hacking it and installing
passwd sniffers (which is very useful) and logging processes.

10. Now use the sniffer log and get root on other boxes. If this all
went well (and undetected) you may now have root on every server in the
collage.

NOTE:

Never fuckup any servers (unless its a kkk or the www.rotten.com server
or something like that). Its lame and some sys admin probably spent
endless nights to have the server in working order.

To be continued........................

Please feel free to email me

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
