
                       :..::..File 8 of 10.::..:
                       :.:.Security Programs.:.:
                       :.::..:.By Cyborg.:..::.:

<*> Introduction: This file deals with security programs and how to
beat them. These are just the easy ones of course. Security programs
with elaborate encryption schemes will not be covered. However, it may
prove useful to know flaws in common programs.

Program #1 - Winlock

This program locks out key security functions to Windows and can only 
be turned off with the password. When faced with the password prompt 
type WINLOCK in all capital letters and then press OK. This is the
default password and works all the way up to v 5.0 as far as I know.
Failing this, try to corrupt the EXE by opening it in Dos Edit and
deleting characters all over the place. This might crash the system 
but it's a good last gasp attempt.

Program #2 - Desktop Surveillance

This program records what you have been doing. Not keystrokes mind you,
and exact playback of your screen. It doesn't have a password feature
though. You are not supposed to know it is there. Press CTRL+ALT+DEL
to view the task list. It is named Osa. Doesn't sound like a
surveillance program does it? Well "End Task" all the same. If your
boss/parents is suspicous about it just closing you might try writing a
small program to feign an illegal operation in explorer. When that
crashes all existing windows and programs will close. The last thing
seen on the playback will be an error message.

Program #3 - IconLOC

This program puts a password lock on icons. Going to an EXE through
RUN does not overide. It is actually a lock on the program unlike the
title. If you want to know the password in the unregistered version
simply right click, than go to properties, then the shortcut tab and
you will find it in the command line between the IconLOC path and the
shortcut path. If you need to know more than just the last password
then you might be interested in a program I coded in Visual Basic last
November called Trickster. Everything about it looks like IconLOC in
every way except when you enter the passord and press OK it saves the
password to the clipboard viewer. If anybody wants it just e-mail me.

Program #4 - Keylog 98

This is actually a monitoring program. It records your keystrokes. It
is great for finding passwords but not so great when somebody is 
running it on you. To throw you off it is listed on the Task List as
Dllman32 so that it looks like a DLL manager, too important to be 
messing about with. Press "End Task" to close. The logs are stored in
the following directory:

c:\windows\system\97x\

That's if you need to recover logs or want to erase past entries. The
logs are so muddled up that no-one will be able to tell any difference
when it comes to closing it or omitting log entries.

Program #5 - Serv-U

This program runs a temporary FTP server on your PC and there is a 
certain command which can be pretty harmfull... First, (in DOS) log in 
with localhost as "anonymous" user, then type:

ls- lga c:\autoexec.bat 

and it over-writes the autoexec.bat with the list of files in the dir.
Now keep in mind the c:\autoexec.bat files are meant to be unreachable.
This works even when the only access you are supposed to have is to 
upload to the upload dir.

Program #6 - Foolproof

This program can block access to certain directories in the system by 
"intercepting interrupt 13h". To access any of the protected 
directories, simply go into any Office 97 application and go to the 
Macro Editor. From there, you can use the CopyFile command, Kill (to 
delete files), or any other file operations.  This allows you full 
access to the file system. Foolproof can also disable every application
in the system except for specified ones that are set in the control 
panel. To bypass this protection, use macros to overwrite an allowed
application, such as Publisher 97/98. Then, you run the application 
through the shortcut that you usually run Publisher from.

Program #7 - Lockdown 2000

This program claims "total security". Unfortunately it cannot deliver
on it's promise. First run boserve.exe. I know that BO is lame but it
is worth publisising bugs to encourage the development of better
software. Lockdown spots a BO server. Now choose to reboot the machine
to remove the trojan. On reboot, the trojan check again finds the BO
server and shows the same warning, and the same promise of removal and
recommendation to reboot. But it has not been "removed from Windows
start-up." Now run Regedit and in the Lockdown directory you will see
two keys " .exe" and "Removed By Lockdown2000". As you see, the Back
Orifice " .exe" command remains where it is, untouched, and Lockdown
has added a false gloat of victory to the Registry.

Well I hope this has been an informative read. If you would like to
e-mail me regarding anything in this file then go ahead. If you are
interested in hacking, phreaking or programming then e-mail me or
visit my website:

                          cyborg@disinfo.net
                        http://cyborg.ie.8m.com

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
