
                       :..::..File 6 of 10.::..:
                       :.:...BIOS Backdoors..:.:
                       :.::.:...By Nommo..:.::.:

<*> By now you should all know that BIOS passwords are not exactly 
top-security.  BIOS password crackers are nice little utilities, and
might be handy if you are lucky enough to actually be inside the
system, but how do you get inside it in the first place? Luckily, the
stingy BIOS manufacturers have implemented backdoor passwords to save
money when people phone up telling them that they've forgotten their
password, so all they have to do is to type in these special codes, and
they will get through the password screens and can change their old
password. BIOS passwords will keep those honest people out but provide
no protection against dishonest (I'd rather say curious) ones.

Ahem.

On to those codes:

I will only give you the most common manufacturers' backdoors, for
others, have a search on the 'net. NB. These are all case sensitive,
so type carefully. And when you're finished, don't change the original
passwords for the user, that's plain lame...

AMI BIOS:
---------

AMI
AMI_SW
AMI?SW
A.M.I.
BIOS
HEWITT RAND
LKWPETER
PASSWORD
589589 (AmiBIOS 4.5x)

AWARD:
------

589589
589721
ALFAROME
aLLy
AWARD_SW
AWARD_PW
AWARD?SW
awkward
BIOSTAR
j256
j262
HLT
lkwpeter
LKWPETER
SER
SKY_FOX
Syxz <-Nice

Others:
-------

Phoenix also have backdoors - can't remember them off-hand.

Can't remember what these work for, but try them out if desperate:
condo, djonet, lkwpeter, biostar, biosstar

IBM Aptiva's can be cleared by holding down both mouse buttons at 
boot-up until the computer boots. Toshiba laptops can bypass the 
password by holding down the left shift key during boot-up.

If none of this works, on some computers, flooding the keyboard buffer
will crash the password routine and allow the computer to boot. That 
means you keep hitting ESC at the password prompt. This may require 50
to 100 presses, and may not work in all machines, but its worked
before, and is worth a try.

The other method is to short the jumper on the motherboard by touching
both the wires together for about 10 seconds.  Some motherboards get
damaged if you do this when it is on, so I suggest you do it with the
computer turned off. Remove the jumper, turn the puter on, then if
that fails then turn the computer on with the jumper in place. This
will clear ALL the CMOS settings, so only do it when in dire need or
when you know all the correct CMOS settings and have them written down.
Better safe than sorry!

From this, I hope you have learnt that BIOS passwords aren't exactly
the safest thing in the world!  If one person learns one thing from
this article then i have done my job!

Laters,

Nommo

thenommo@mailcity.com
http://UphreaK.8m.com

Other texts by meself:

How to get around school proxy servers
 - An overview and several methods

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
