pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 9 - December 2000            o
p                               File 7 of 15                                   o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop

Guide to Eating Pussy
      
Dedicated to the Ladies
   I can't help it. I love eating a girl's pussy. If the lady in
question has a nice pussy, I'll lick her until my jaws ache and my tounge
is ready to fall off.  I just love it. 

    Why?  Because, I enjoy watching her reactions while I explore her
most sensitive areas.  Eating pussy well involves more than just your
tounge and her pussy too.  It involves the rest of her, and a certain
attitude you project to your woman.  The attitude is simple, so we'll
tackle that first. 

    Some guys have the attitude that once she's wet, she's ready, and
they move on to intercourse.  This misses the point.  The point isn't to
"get her ready", but rather, to give her pleasure.  If you have an
attitude that says to a woman "I want to make you feel good", she'll
enjoy it more, and what you spend in time and effort on her, she'll
return to you later. 
    
    This brings us to "how do I do it?"  Simple. Do anything that comes
to mind, but without hurrying.  Take your time and tease.  Don't rush her
to an orgasm.  If you've already buried your tounge between her legs,
then begin thinking about other parts of your bodies.  Use your hands.
While you're there, your hands can caress her thighs, calves, feet (if
she's not ticklish), or her stomach, sides, belly, etc.  If you have long
hair, lightly draw it over some sensitive area, such as her inner thighs. 
   
    The actual act usually concentrates on her vagina and clitoris. Now,
if you're paying attention to her reactions, you'll notice that constant
clitoral licking won't get the job done. Spend anywhere from 15 to 45
seconds on her clit, then move around.  Circle the clit with your tounge
tip, lightly, and then follow the folds of her labia down to her
entrance.  Spend some time using your lips to play with her pussy-lips,
and then work your way back to her clit. This will allow you to taste
her, and coat your tounge with her wonderfully slippery juices, which
aids in creating the sensations on her clit. 
    
     Personally, I've found the area between the outer folds of her labia
and the tops of her thighs to be incredibly sensitive. This little "no-
man's-land" area is often overlooked. Before diving in, slowly and gently
kiss and lick this area, teasing her by getting closer and closer on one
side, and just when she expects you to "go for it", start all over on the
other side. This same idea can be prolonged even more by starting with
her inner thighs, just above her knees and working your way up, nipping
her skin with your lips lightly as you alternate from thigh to thigh. 

     Remember that she is laying back and relaxing, her eyes closed, and
her concentration on what you're doing (or at least she SHOULD be
concentrating on what you're doing).  The secret is to establish a
pattern that says "I'm headed for your pussy, dear." and then, just as
she expects you to eat her, a light kiss on her mons or pubic hair, then
you start all over again, working your way down to her pussy again from
somewhere else. 

     If you do these things correctly, she'll beg you to stop teasing
her, but don't let that bother you.  Tease her a little more, until she
insists that you stop fooling around.  At this point, her whole body
should be very sensitive, every nerve alive and waiting for your touch. 
    
     Now comes the moment of truth. Lean forward and, pause.  Pause with
your mouth less than an inch away. If you're like most people, your
breath will be like a warm caress across her damp, sensitive skin.  Let
her feel it. Then, as lightly as you can, draw your tounge up between her
legs, perhaps alonside her labia until you reach the top of her slit.
Follow the contours, all the way down to her entrance.  Do it twice, or
three times, but do it slowly and watch her reactions. Do her hips sway
or rock to try to make you touch some other part of her? Does her
breathing change? Does she moan or sigh? Those places that make her react
are special places that you should remember. 
    
     For you guys who failed anatomy class, slide your tounge from the
bottom of her (hopefully now very wet) slit, to the top. This will serve
two very useful functions. First, if her labia (pussy lips for those who
don't know), haven't become swollen and open, your passing tounge will
part them, and excite her at the same time. Secondly, as you rise up,
just as you find the top of her slit, you'll find a small button of
flesh. This is her clitoris and it is as sensitive as the head of your
cock. 

     Now, if you've ever had a woman who licks and sucks the head of your
cock for too long, first give me her phone number, and second remember
that feeling of being "raw"?  If you concentrate on her clit for too
long, that's the feeling she'll get.  It is important to watch her
reaction as you lick, so you can judge how much pressure to apply. Start
lightly at first, and vary the speed, motion and pressure.  Start with
circling motions, then change to up and down flicks. Pause and decend
down her pussy and return a few seconds later and start again. Don't keep
up the same pattern so that it is predictable for too long, as this will
numb her clit or bore her, and these are the last things we want to do. 
    
    Best of all, if you can, have her masturbate for you. You should
observe what her fingers do, and what sort of motions she likes. This
will give you an idea.  Some women are shy about this and are reluctant.
Be patient and if tell her if she wants you to give her terrific
pleasure, it would help you to know what she likes.  Other than that,
you'll have to be observant of her reactions. 

     Shaved versus "natural" looks. This is a matter of taste (pun
intended). Pussies shaved bare are very sensitive and sensual, especially
once you begin to get things wet with your tounge.  You can also trim her
bush for her, which by the way, is a great turn on for her, and shows her
how delicate and gentle you can be.  If you can't convince her to shave
it all off, try buying her a swimsuit that is very narrowly cut down the
front. She'll likely shave so she can wear the suit.  If neither of you
wants her shaved bare, make it a part of your foreplay to keep her bush
trimmed neatly. 
    
     Trimming her bush is best done with a pair of small scissors with
the points rounded (or covered with adhesive tape).  Using a comb, comb
through her hair gently to remove tangles first.  Now, with a towel under
her, you can trim for length. Start out long, so that you don't leave her
bush a mass of short, bristly stubble that will irriate. This is
espcially important between her legs. If her hair curls next to her
labia, cut the hair about half way through the curl, so that it doesn't
stick straight out.  If you want to shape her bush, say into a heart,
trim the outline first, before you cut the length. That way, you won't
thin too much hair out and leave bare or thin spots. 
    
    If you are going to shave her, be sure to have a good CLEAN safety
razor, a NEW blade (less irritation and fewer nicks), soap or shave
cream, some tissue paper (for any minor nicks), and skin cream or oil for
afterwards.  Shaving her pussy will be a job much like shaving your own
face, except that you'll be working in a far more sensitive area and more
difficult too. 

    Begin by trimming her bush short, then laying a warm washcloth on
her while you prepare the soap. Leave her bush damp and lather, being
sure that you clean off her slit and clit so you can protect them later.
Keep the skin taut, and with a warm, wet razor, made light, even strokes.
Use your own finger to protect any potentially sensitive area from being
nicked. If you should see a cut, put a small piece of dry tissue on it 
to let it stop bleeding and then continue shaving her.  Holding her legs
wide, one at a time will help. Once you have shaved her mons, and around
her vaginal slit, complete the job by carefully shaving around her anus
too.  All done? Good, now take the skin oil or cream (which you should
have set in some warm water), and massage that into her freshly shaved
skin. 

     Either way, trimming or shaving her will normally have her nerves
just slightly on edge, and the touch of your hands will cause her to
become aroused. Often, just trimming her bush will cause her to produce a
thick, white cream as you comb, tease, and trim around her most sensitive
areas.  And, she can seldom resist keeping her hands from exploring your
handiwork.  Let her see and feel it, and tell her she is beautiful. 
    
     If you're doing this as foreplay, then shaving will take you about
1/2 hour, maybe a little more. Trimming will take about 20 minutes,
including the clean up of her cut hair.  Once this is done, and she's
hopefully pulled you into the bed, demanding her "reward" for the night,
take your time to let her really experience the new sensations. Prolong
it, and make her writhe about in estascy at the new feelings. 
    
     Now a few words for the guys. First, if you're bearded or have any
sort of facial hair, be sure to shave before going down on her shaved
pussy. This is especially true if you're clean shaven, but have ANY
stubble, even your nightly five o'clock shadow. This feels like sandpaper
to her thighs and her very sensitive sexual areas.  If you can't part
with your beard or mustache, then don't expect her to let you near her,
at least after that first time! 
    
     Okay, now you've had your way, give her what she wants. If you've
been listening, you've picked up on the idea of doing all of this with
the attitude of making her pleasure greater, for HER enjoyment. Oh, sure,
you'll get a lot out of this too, but that's not the point now is it?
Once you've finally begun tounging her clit and pussy, remember you have
two of the most versatile instruments ever invented -- your hands.  And
you have ten fingers with which to give her pleasure.  Simplicity is to
use one or two fingers and slowly enter her with them. Now instead of
simply using them like a shaft that pumps in and out, try bending them.
Up, down, sideways.  See what she likes. As she becomes aroused, try to
spread them against her muscular ring inside. You might be surprised at
how strong these muscles are.  Spread your fingers, and move in and out.
Vary the strength you use to spread them, and try to sense when her
muscles contract quickly and strongly against your fingers. This is a
sure indication that she likes something you did. 
    
     Consider that men and women's sexual organs have similar origins.
The same nerves that connect her clit to her brain, also connect your
cock to your brain. In fact, your cock can be seen as a very long clit,
as they both are attached to the body in the same areas. When you
masturbate, the same muscles you use to flex your cock upwards are the
same ones she contracts to squeeze your fingers (or cock) inside her
pussy. 
   
     A last few words on the oral sensations you can give her. The area
below her vaginal entrance and her anus is often overlooked.  This is a
shame, as it is a very sensitive area.  Use your tounge firmly here, and
flick it rapidly either up and down, or side to side.  If you desire, you
can run your tounge around the edge of her anus, which will also be
sensitive.  This is, of course, best done after a bath or shower, when
she is fresh and clean.  This may sound practical, but I offer it up for
another reason.  There is a psycological fear we all have of offending
someone with bodily odors. Women won't feel "sensual" or "desireable" if
they're holding their breath, worried that you'll be turned off by their
bodily odors.
    
     Now, if you've read this far, you've gotten the idea that you can
give your lady lots of pleasure, and you may be wondering "hey! What
about ME?!" Well, what about you?  If you have done things properly,
you've brought your woman to the verge of orgasm, excited every nerve in
her body, and shown her that you LIKE making her sexy and sensual.
Decision time. Do you take her over the edge and let her come? Or, do you
now ask this passionate woman to climb on and ride you so you both can
come?  Dither, dither, dither.  As a suggestion I would say that at
first, you give her a nice orgasm. If she is multi-orgasmic so much the
better, keep her going for several.  Then, hold her and caress her gently
while she relaxes and drifts, secure in your arms, being loved by her
loving man.  She'll love you for it.  Other times however, you may want
to pause, with her in a very sexual frame of mind, and let her take her
turn at you.  This allows her to drive you to the same plateau of sexual
cravings as you did to her, and then you both can get crazy with each
other.  The secret here is DON'T always do the same thing.  Keep her
guessing and responding to the sensations you are giving her. Likely,
you'll have some wonderful sex, and even better, someone who appreciates
you for it. 

Good luck, and happy licking!
