pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 9 - December 2000            o
p                               File 15 of 15                                  o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop

well, you made it through to the end of the come-back issue of the DoJ. we're
not dead. we were simply resting up. if we can get content together, expect to
see a mammoth christmas/new year issue next month!

i've been waiting a long time to actually get down and dirty and do something
with the DoJ. and now i'm finally doing something. i guess you could say i'm
assistant editor, or something to that effect. i should have been in bed hours
ago. my wife just mumbled something to me in her sleep, asking where the 
"dinitdinitdinit" was. i told her it was on the table, and to go to sleep.
and for probably the first time in our relationship she did as she was told.
this is an omen. that i should keep on the path that i've started on.

the overall response to the DoJ's comeback has been pretty damn good overall.
we only hope that we can keep up this momentum, get a consistent reader base,
with a steady stream of submissions. but we can't do it without help from our
readers! send the DoJ to your friends! print it out and pin it up on the
notice board at school! all your friends will think you're eleet if they have
to come to you to get their fix of DoJ!

if you're feeling creative, for god's sake send us something! if you can't
even muster a full text, at least send us a short email, to let us know that
there are people out there that care.

if you wish, you are free to link to the DoJ site at
www.subterranea.net/discordia/. if you wish to mirror the DoJ in compressed
form (.zip or .tgz), that's fine... but please follow two stipulations. first
of all, you must not modify any of the texts at all. by all means include a
.nfo text or whatever telling people where they downloaded it. that's fair
enough. but we'd rather you didn't modify the files at all.

secondly. let us know. just send us a quick mail, telling us where you're
mirroring them. we may even include a url in the zine itself :)

and so. thankyou for downloading and reading this, issue #9 (the 10th issue!
go figure) of the Discordant Opposition Journal. before i dissapear, here are
some shameless plugs for people and websites who have supports us (or will
support us, out of guilt):

           www.hackerzlair.org                    www.subterranea.net

       #hackerzlair on irc.dal.net         #hacking on irc.subterranea.net

         #hack on irc.venomx.com               www.illegaloperations.com

                      http://inferno.tusculum.edu/~cronus

one final note...

thanks to cronus, rue-the-day, and kleptic for starting this institution we all know and love, and/or helping out in the rebirth of said institution we all know and love..

fwaggle

EOF