pooooopooooooooooppoooooopoopooooooooooooppooooooooopooooooopoooooooppoooooopoop
p           Discordant Opposition Journal - Issue 9 - December 2000            o
p                               File 11 of 15                                  o
poooooooopoooooooooooopoooopooooooopoooooopooooooooooooopooooooppooooooopoooooop

Kevin Mitnick.
by Sear^^^

On the 8th of October 99, Hacker Kevin Mitnick was sentenced by Judge
Marina Pflaezar to pay $4,125 in restitution to various companies and to
keep his hands off anything that could lead to his breaking into a company
box/network and causing further trouble.This included Mobile phones,button
dial landlines,computers and he was forbid to work in a business which
required him to operate a computer or any of the above.

Judge Pfaelzer also sentinced Kevin to spend Three years and ten months in
a prison cell.After one year he would be eligible for parole and that he
would pay parole for three years. Though Mitnick was on the minimum wage,
Pfaelzer told Mitnick that she expected the $4,125 and that he was required
to pay it.He acknoledged this.

After a hacking spree that had consisted of hundreds of fellow hackers
taking part he was arrested in North Caolina. After attacking such companies
as Motorola,Nokia,sub Microsystems,Novell and possibly the North American
Air Defense Command computer,though the supposed hack on the Air Defence
command computer was never proven.

After being accused of such hacks, in March he admitted to hacking company
servers and networks,stealing source and software and installing programs
that caused the companys to pay millions of dollars. He then pleaded guilty
to 5 felony counts.

He was then asked to pay $1.5 million because he had caused more than that
to the companys.They felt that he would soon pay this fine off by writing
books,articles,interviews,films. Donal Randolph requested that Mitnick be
put in a re-habilition center for obssesion with this "habit".Pfaelzer
opposed this.

While on parole the restrictions that i mentioned above came into full force
and he was banned from lecturing on computers fearing he may give out enough
information for a successful cyberhack amoungst the audience he may be
lecturing. On Monday a court hearing was held. Supporters of mitnick and
hackers alike turned up to hear the hearing.

Over the years in prison he faced,"Free Kevin" bumper stickers became a 
every-day sight around america as supporters fought for his release.Proving
that he was an idol,icon or hero to the hacking culture. Mitnick then took
his case to court on not being able to write about computers for magazines,
books or anything else and that he should at least be able to write in hand
or typewriter and feed the info via land line to the publisher.After
spending for years in prison without money,he was rather pushed into getting
some money together to pay his debts.

Steven Brill (publisher of the monthly magazine Brills Content) Offered
Mitnick a job in writing columns monthly for his web site. Mitnick would
review computers, software, magazines, books etc for the site and put forward
his column. The officals then disagreed with this and tried to stop mitnick
taking the job due to the fact that he was once a computer criminal or hacker
and that he was addicted to hacking and that it may be dangerous giving him
the job.They claimed it may give people the ability to commit cyber hacks and
cause more damage to companys.

''In regards to the numerous requests you have received concerning writing and
critiquing articles and speaking at conferences, we find it necessary to deny
your participation and recommend that you pursue employment in a non-related
field,'' wrote Mitnick's probation officer, Larry Hawley to USA today.

On Monday, Judge Pfaelzer would hear mitnick about his fight for the "right
to write". Mitnicks Probation officers then cited the latter restrictions
and told mitnick that there was no way that he was going to work for brill.
Mitnicks Lawyers then commented that it was going further than the judge
had ruled.

''Surely, Mr. Mitnick can be prohibited from teaching others how to hack,
but that condition should not be so broadly read as to prohibit him from
speaking or writing on any topic related to computers,'' New York attorney
Floyd Abrams wrote in a friend of the court brief. 

On thursday Brill said that Mitnick was 1 in 90 people suitable for writing
for the column for the web page. He offered a $5,000 down payment plus $750
for each column submitted to the web page.A e-book was planned to include
some of mitnicks articles with 50% of the profits.

It was then ruled that mitnick could write for the company as long as he
typed it with a typewriter or in handrwriting aand then fed it via land line
to the editors. 

At a conferance in Washington this year he spoke about wanting to make a
public apology.He also commented that doing what he did(breaking into company
systems and stealing source and other things including uploading programs
which caused the companys millions of dollars.He sympatized with the software
designers at the conferance. 

After the conferance at a interview he said that he had been mischievous and
being places he shouldnt of been in.He said that he never destroyed anything
and that the charges on him were harsh but fair.

He then gained soaring notoriety.he was featured in magazines and also in the
New York Times and two books.....one to be made into a movie.He was put down
as being an inspiration for hackers and an hero.When asking other hackers if
this were true they said it was,proving that he really is a hero to the
hacking culture.

Though he had been made out to be an evil genius by the media,people soon
found out that he was only a over curious intellect. for six years he had
hid from officials and been wanted by the FBI for one of americas dangerous
criminals.

Now, Mitnick is building a reputation as a computer pundit rather than a evil
hacker. Since January(when he was released) he has written things for web
sites and is also thinking of writing articls for magazines.

"This is how I intend to make a living now," he says. "I'm trying to share
my knowledge and experience." he said to a USA today reporter.

He now has jobs and is being constintly being offered to write articles for
online publication and even has a mobile though it is being closely monitored.

In an interview on the topic of his probation he comments that hed rather
spend 6 months in a jail cell than all the monitoring and restrictions hes
currently facing.