
                 ------------------------------------
                              Qoole v2.50
                  Quake Object Oriented Level Editor
                     By Matthew Ayres and Paul Hsu
                 ------------------------------------

Qoole is (C)1997 by Lithium Software.  All rights reserved.
Quake is a trademark of Id Software, Inc.


1.  Introduction
----------------

Qoole is a 3D level editor for the popular computer games Quake and
Quake II written by id Software, Inc.  Qoole is an acronym for 'Quake
Object Oriented Level Editor', and is pronounced like the word
'cool'.  It is capable of creating new Quake levels and modifying
existing levels saved in id's ".map" or Qoole's ".qle" file formats.
Qoole features the Object Oriented level editing methodology, as well
as an intuitive user interface that provides powerful editing
functions.  These functions include:

  Object Oriented grouping and scoping
  Object move, rotate and scale manipulations
  Using premade brush and object primitives
  Brush vertex, edge and face manipulations
  Brush hollowing
  Constructive Solid Geometry Subtraction
  Undo operations
  Entity property editing
  Wireframe/Solid Polygons/Texture previews
  Fast 3D rendering engine
  Easy map navigating interface
  Texture bookmarks
  Texture move, rotate and scale manipulations
  Multiple texture files manager
  Compiling BSP files and running Quake from within the program
  And many others...

Qoole allows you to build Quake level maps effortlessly without
requiring you to have any prior 3D map editing experience.  Both
beginners and advanced map creators will find Qoole to be an
indispensable tool for designing professional looking Quake
levels quickly and easily.


2.  Map Editing Concepts
------------------------

There are 2 primary elements in a Quake map: brushes and entities.  A
brush is simply a 3 dimensional solid block.  In a Quake map, the
world is made out of solid blocks.  To make a simple cubic room, one
would need 6 brushes to enclose off an empty area; 1 brush for the
ceiling, 1 brush for the floor, and 4 brushes for the surrounding
walls.

As for the second element to a Quake map, there are 2 kinds of
entities: item entities and applied entities.  The item entities are
basic items in Quake such as weapons, health boxes and monsters.  The
applied entities are special properties that are assigned to some
brushes to make them perform certain functions, such as an elevator
that moves up and down or a door that opens and closes.


3.  Object Oriented Concept
---------------------------

Qoole considers everything as an object.  An object can be either an
item from Quake (an entity), a convex solid block (brush), or a group
of other objects.  This simple concept results in the powerful feature
of multi-layered grouping.  Grouping allows you to build structures
such as a staircase, an arch, a bridge or a chair out of simple
brushes.  Grouping also lets you to make complex rooms and level
sections quickly out of those structures.  Imagine a level made out of
'rooms', which are made from simpler structures, which themselves are
made from other smaller objects or brushes.

The Object Oriented editing methodology hides unnecessary information
from the user.  With it, you can construct a level based on logical
objects instead of thousands of brushes and vertices.  The methodology
also introduces modularity and portability.  The user can build
independent sections of a level without worrying about the rest of the
map, thus the user is able to compile libraries of re-usable, complex
objects.  It removes the extra work required to remake similar
structures in different maps.  It also opens the possibility of using
third party supplied structure and object libraries.


4.  Menu Commands Description
-----------------------------

Here we briefly explain of each of the menu commands and its
function in Qoole.  Some commands are pretty obvious, and require
little or no explanation.  We start with the File menu. 

File Menu
  New, Load, Save, Save As, Exit

  Export Map
    This allows you to save your Quake maps in the id's ".map" format.
    The saved ".map" file however will lose any object grouping information
    that was added in Qoole.  You'd normally use this function to distribute
    your maps for public release so they can be compiled and loaded in other
    Quake map editors.  When exporting a ".map" file, Qoole also creates a
    ".wad" file containing only the textures used by the map.  It is often
    very useful to supply this ".wad" file with the ".map" file.

  Export BSP
    Before you can load a map as a level in Quake, it must be compiled
    into the binary format ".bsp" that Quake understands.  Normally you
    use three other utilities to accomplish this: QBSP, LIGHT and VIS.
    These three utilities are included with the Qoole distribution.  The
    menu command Export BSP brings up a dialog box that allows you to
    select the different utilities you need to run and compile your map.
    It can also start up Quake and load the level for you after Qoole has
    compiled the map.

Edit Menu
  Undo, Cut, Copy, Paste, Delete, Duplicate
  
  CSG Subtract
    The function CSG Subtract works very much like a cookie cutter.
    It carves holes out of solid brushes using the selected object as the
    cutting shape.  It removes the portions of other brushes intersecting 
    the selected object.  This is often used to break open the walls
    inbetween 2 adjacent rooms to make a doorway.  This function only applies
    to the brushes in the level and has no effects on entities.

  Hollow Brush
    This function only applies to brushes.  It hollows out a solid
    block, breaking it down to multiple thin blocks surrounding an empty
    area inside.  This is often used to create rooms out of enlarged
    cubic brushes.

Mode Menu
  A mode in Qoole selects the default mouse operation.  There are 11
  different editing modes in Qoole: Object Select, Object Move, Object
  Rotate, Object Scale, Vertex Move, Edge Move, Face Move, Eye Move,
  Eye Rotate, Eye Zoom, and Walk-Through.  Qoole is always in one of these
  operation modes.  The different modes are explained below.

  Object Select
    This mode selects an object that will be manipulated by other
    operations.  You can select only one object at a time (see grouping
    section on how to make multiple objects into one).  Qoole draws
    the selected object in red in the edit windows.  To select an object
    in this mode, place the mouse over the object and keep clicking the
    left mouse button until the object is highlighted in red.  The
    selection cycles through from the nearest to the furthermost objects
    positioned underneath the mouse cursor.

    The Object Selection mode also is embedded in the Object Move,
    Object Rotate and Object Scale modes.  To select an object in these
    modes, left click on the object without moving the mouse.

  Object Move
    This mode changes the position of the selected object.  To move an
    object, simply left click on the selected object in any edit windows,
    drag it to a new position and release.  You may only move an object in
    the plane parallel to the edit window.

  Object Rotate
    This mode changes the orientation of the selected object.  To
    rotate an object, left click on the selected object in any edit
    window, drag the mouse left or right and release.  This rotates the
    object in the counter-clockwise and clockwise directions fixed in the
    plane parallel to the window.  

    If an object contains an item entity, the object's rotation
    will be restricted to the plane parallel to the world. If an object
    consists of only brushes, it can rotate freely in any direction.

  Object Scale
    This mode changes the size of an object.  Similar to Object Move
    and Rotate, you scale an object by left clicking on the selected
    object, dragging and releasing.  By default, Qoole limits scaling to
    2 dimensions at a time.  These 2 dimensions are defined by the axes
    of the plane parallel to the window.  When scaling an
    object, only brushes in that object are changed.  You cannot modify
    an item-entity's size.

  Vertex Move
    This function only applies to brush objects.  It allows you to
    modify the shape of a brush by changing the positions of its
    vertices.  In this mode, the selected brush is displayed with yellow
    dots at its vertices.  To move a vertex, simply left click on its
    yellow dot and drag it to a new position.

    When compiling a Quake map, all solid brushes must be convex
    (bowed outward).  You can't change the position of a vertex into an
    invalid concave shape (with a 'cave' in it).  This usually happens
    when you drag a vertex out of the planes of the faces containing the
    vertex.  Qoole prompts you when this happens, and snaps the brush
    back to its original shape.

  Edge Move
    This function only applies to brush objects.  It allows you to
    move an edge of the selected brush into a new position.  In this
    mode, the selected brush is displayed with yellow dots in the middle
    of all its edges.  To move an edge, simply left click on a yellow dot
    and drag it to a new position.  Moving an edge may deform the brush
    into an invalid concave shape.  Qoole prompts you when this happens,
    and snaps the brush back to its original shape.

  Face Move    
    This function only applies to brush objects.  It allows you to
    move a face of the selected brush into a new position.  In this mode,
    the selected brush is displayed with yellow dots at the middle of all
    its faces.  To move a face, simply left click on its yellow dot and
    drag it to a new position.  Moving a face may deform the brush into
    an invalid concave shape.  Qoole prompts you when this happens, and
    snaps the brush back to its original shape.

  Eye Move
    This mode changes the where the virtual "eye" is looking from in
    the editing windows.  By default, the 4 editing windows all focus on
    one point in space.  If you move the view of an editing window, all
    the other editing windows will update their views relative to the new
    editing focus point.  To move this focus position, left click and
    drag the mouse in any window.  This movement is fixed in the plane
    parallel to the window.  To move the focus position forward and
    backward in the 3D view, right click and drag the mouse forward and
    backward inside the 3D editing window.  You can also use the arrow keys
    at any time to move an editing view's position.

  Eye Rotate (Orbit)
    This mode changes the orientation of the view in the 3D edit window.
    There are 2 ways to do this.  The 1st way is to have the 3D view revolve
    and "orbit" around the editing focus point.  The position of the virtual
    "eye" changes, but the position of the editing focus point deos not.
    Thus this will not affect the views of the 2D windows.  To do this,
    LEFT click and drag the mouse in the 3D edit window.  By default, this
    mode uses the "crystal ball" interface, where one rotates the world like
    spinning a crystal ball centered at the editing focus point.  If the
    option "inverse mouse" is enabled in the config window, then this mode
    uses the "orbiting" interface, where you move the eye position left and
    right revolving around the focus point.  The 2nd way is to have 3D view's
    "eye" stay at the same position, but only rotate it's view to look up,
    down, left and right.  If the option "View Locking" is enabled, this mode
    derives a new editing focus point based on the new viewing direction, and
    updates the other 2D views relatively.  To rotate the view, RIGHT click
    and drag the mouse in the 3D edit window.

  Eye Zoom
    This changes the zoom level of the 2D views.  Left click in any
    window and drag the mouse up and down.  In the 3D view, this mode
    increases and descreases the distance between the 3D view's "eye"
    position and the editing focus point.

  Walk-Through
    This mode allows you to move the 3D view around in the level using
    a similar interface to Quake's movement controls.  While in this mode,
    you move the mouse to look left, right, up and down.  You can enable
    the "inverse mouse" option in the config window if you prefer the
    "airplane" style of control.  The default keys for moving in the 3D view
    are:

    FORWARD - 'w', up arrow or right mouse button;
    BACKWARD - 's' or down arrow;
    LEFT - 'a', or left arrow;
    RIGHT - 'd' or right arrow;
    UP - 'e' or Pg Up;
    DOWN - 'c' or Pg Dn.

    Press ESC, SpaceBar, or the Enter key at any time to quit out of the
    Walk-Through Mode.

Object Menu
  Grouping Menu
    Grouping and scoping are essentially the Object Oriented features of Qoole.
    With grouping and scoping, you manipulate multiple brushes as grouped
    logical objects.  You can change the grouping information of an object by
    using the following menu commands.

    Add To
      You use this command to mark the objects that you want to group
      together.  It changes the selected object's color to brown to show
      that you have marked it.

    Finish
      This command takes the current marked objects and groups them together
      into a new logical object.

    Ungroup
      This command ungroups the selected objects, separating the immediate
      subcomponents into individual objects.

  Scope Menu
    Scopes are very similar to the directory hierarchy of a file system.
    Qoole defines the scope of an object by the grouping of the object's
    immediate subcomponents.  If we ever want to modify the components of
    an object, we need to enter the object's scope first.  Qoole provides
    the scope up and scope down commands for this purpose.  The top most
    scope in a Quake map always contains the worldspawn entity, which defines
    certain properties for the entire Quake level.

    Scope Up
      This "exits" the scope of an object.  If the current scope is the top
      most scope in the entire level, and there are multiple objects in
      the current scope, Qoole creates a new scope and places all the objects
      together into the new group.  An analogy of this function to a file
      system would be like going to the parent directory.

    Scope Down
      This "enters" the scope of a grouped object.  By default, everything
      other than the selected object will disappear from the editing windows.
      Scoping down hides unnecessary information about the rest of the world
      when you're working on individual objects in a Quake level.  An analogy
      of this function to a file system would be like entering a sub directory.

  Add Brush Menu
    This menu provides several primitive brushes that you can use in Qoole.
    These primitive brushes include cubes, spheres, triangular and
    rectangular prisms of different sides, etc.  When adding new brushes,
    Qoole places them at the center of the 4 editing windows when you have
    enabled 'View Locking' (see "Lock View").

  Add Entity
    This menu shows you the item entities that you can add to a Quake level.
    When adding new item entities, Qoole places them at the center of
    the 4 editing windows when you have enabled 'View Locking'
    (see "Lock View").

  Delete
    This command deletes the currently selected object.

  Apply Entity
    This menu shows you the properties you can apply to brushes to make
    them perform functions in Quake.  These functions include doors,
    elevators, moving platforms, etc.

  Entity Properties
    This command brings up the entity properties window.  It is used
    to modify the attributes and properties of entities that define their
    behavior in a Quake level.

  Load Prefab
    This command loads a Qoole object file from the prefab directory
    on the hard drive.

  Save Prefab
    This command saves the selected object as an individual Qoole Object
    in the prefab directory on your hard drive.  By default, Qoole saves
    the prefabs in ".qle" format.

Texture Menu
  Apply
    This command applies the selected texture in the textures window
    to all the faces of the selected object.  You can also do this by
    double clicking on the selected texture in the textures window, or
    pressing T.

  Texture Properties
    This command brings up a window that allows you to change and
    align the texture on an individual face of a brush.  You also can
    press Alt+T to bring up this window.

  Details
    This command brings up a window displaying the dimension of the
    selected texture from the textures window.  You also can right click on
    the texture inside the textures window, and select the Details
    command to get to this window.

  Bookmarks
    This command brings up a window that allows you to bookmark your
    favorite textures from the textures window.  You also can press Alt+B
    to bring up this window.

  Add Wad
    This command lets you add an additional texture file to Qoole's
    texture database.

  Wad Manager
    This command lets you add and remove texture files from Qoole's
    texture database.  You can also specify the texture files that will
    be displayed in the textures window.

View Menu
  Add Window
    This command adds other view windows in additional to the standard
    4 editing windows.

  Render Style
    The menu lets you select the rendering style of the 3D window.
    The available styles include wireframe, solid polygon and textured
    rendering.

  Goto Center
    This centers the 4 editing views to the object scope.

  Lock Views
    By default, the 4 editing views focus on a common point in space.
    When you change the position of one of the views, the other editing views
    update themselves relative to the new focus point.  The Lock Views command
    enables and disables this focus feature.  When disabled, all the 4
    editing views can move independently from each other.

  Dec/Inc View Depth
    To make it easier to see an editing view, Qoole doesn't display
    portions of a map beyond a certain viewing range.  These 2 menu
    commands increase and decrease this viewing range.

  Cascade/Default Layout
    This command repositions the 4 editing windows back to the
    default desktop layout.

Options Menu
  Config Window
    This command lets you change Qoole options.

  Entity Set
    This command lets you choose the commercial add-on pack that you're
    building the map for.  This changes the entities that you can add to
    your levels.

  Video Modes
    This command lets you change the video resolution when Qoole is
    running under full screen mode.

  About
    Information about Qoole.


5.  User Interface
------------------

Now we will explain the user interface and the functions of each of
the windows.

Editing Windows

The 4 editing windows display the map you are building from 4
different viewing directions: top, back, side and an arbitrary 3D
angle.  By default, these 4 views are focused on a common point in
space.  When you move the view in one window, Qoole updates the other
views relative to the new focus point in space.  You can "lock" and
"unlock" the views of the 4 windows by using the menu command "Lock
View."  

Quake uses a right handed coordinate system for its maps.  To
understand this system better, imagine an everyday road map.  The
positive X axis is like the direction east, and points to the right
side in the top view window.  The positive Y axis is like the
direction north, and points up in the top view window.  Then simply
think of the Z axis as the measurement of height in our Quake maps.
The positive Z axis comes out of the top view window and points
toward us.  The back window provides the view toward the north
direction, and the side window provides the view toward the west
direction.  The 3D window is simply a camera view that 'orbits'
around the editing focal point in space.

The 3D window can be rendered in wireframe, solid fill polygons or
textured preview styles.  This can be changed by the "View->Render"
menu commands.

You can reset the views of the editing windows back to the origin
with the menu command "View->Home."

The editing views have a display depth range.  Portions of a map will
not display beyond a certain distance in the views.  It is helpful
when building large Quake levels because it reduces the number of
objects shown on the screen.  You can adjust the distance value by
using the menu commands "View->Decrease View Depth" and
"View->Increase View Depth."

To further unclutter the editing windows while building a level, you
can turn off the display of item entity wireframes in the map.  You
do this by disabling the "display entities" option in the
configuration window.

Textures Window

This window displays all the textures from the texture files you
specified in Qoole's wad file manager.  You can apply these textures
to brushes when creating a Quake level.  Whenever you add a new brush
into a map, Qoole applies the selected texture from the textures
window to all the faces of the new brush.  To change the texture of a
brush in a map, first select the brush object, then scroll through
the textures window, left mouse click on the new texture to select
it, and right mouse click and select the apply command.

Texture Files (WADs) Manager

This window allows you to add and remove texture files to and from
Qoole's texture database.  It also lists all the wad files that's in
the database, and the number of textures contained in each wad file.
Some files are listed with a check mark next to them, which means
that the textures from those wad files are displayed in the textures
window.  To check or uncheck a file, just double click on the file
entry in the window.

Texture Details Window

To bring up this window, select a texture in the textures window,
right mouse click, and select the details command.  This window
displays the selected texture's true dimension.

Bookmark Window

You use this window to bookmark textures from the textures window.
To bring up this window, select the menu command
"Textures->Bookmarks", or press Alt+B.  The bookmark window contains
7 texture slots.  To bookmark a commonly used texture, select the
texture first in the textures window, then press the "Set" button of
an empty slot inside the bookmark window.

To quickly move to a bookmarked texture in the textures window,
simply click on the texture in the bookmark window.

  The "reset" button in the window clears all the 7 texture bookmarks.
  The "save" button saves the bookmarking information into a file.
  The "load" button reloads the bookmarking information from a file.

Texture Property Window

By default, the selected texture from the textures window is applied
to all the faces of a new brush.  This window allows you to apply a
different texture to individual faces of the selected brush object.
To bring up this window, first select a brush object, then select the
menu command "Texture->Texture Properties," or press Alt+T.

Use the "Next" and the "Previous" buttons to cycle through the faces
of the brush.  The selected face is always outlined in the color
yellow.  To assign a different texture to this face, select a new
texture in the textures window, right click, and select the apply
command.  Use the X and Y offsets, and X and Y scale adjustments to
align a texture along the edges of the face.  Use the "angle"
adjustment to rotate the orientation of the texture on the face.
Repeat this process for the different sides of the selected brush as
needed.

Object Window

This window displays the texture that you applied to the selected
object.  If the object consists of brushes that have been applied
with different textures, this window displays the words "Multiple
Textures."

Entity Property Window

This window lets you modify the behavior of entities in a Quake
level.  An entity's behavior is defined by a list of attributes and
their values.  These attributes have different meaning depending on
the type of entity they are associated with.  Usually the attributes
have the general meanings described below:

  targetname          The name of the entity.
  target              The target of a trigger entity.
  message             Message displayed when a trigger entity is triggered.
  style               Entity specific styles.
  spawnflags          Entity specific attributes.
  speed               How fast the entity moves.
  wait                How long the entity waits between completion of movement.
  lip                 The amount of door/button to remain in place when
                      opened or pushed.
  health              How much damage the entity takes before it triggers.
  delay               Time before an event is triggered.
  sounds              The sound the entity makes when triggered.
  height              How high a platform will raise.

To modify the behavior of an entity, select the entity object first.
Then select the menu command "Object->Entity Properties," or press
Alt+E.  Click in the attribute fields and change their values.


6.  Config windows
------------------

Config

  Snap
    This value determines how much precision you have on manipulating
    objects.  Lower values give you more precision, while higher values
    make aligning objects easier.

  Draw Grid
    This value determines how many units between grid lines in the views.

  Hollow Wall
    This sets the wall thickness for objects that are hollowed.

  Rotate Snap
    This value effects the precision on object rotations.

  Sensitivity
    Mouse sensivitity for object manipulations.

  Gamma
    Gamma correction sets the brightness of the Qoole GUI.

  Snapping
    Toggles snapping on and off.

  Invert Mouse
    Inverts the mouse for eye rotation modes.

  Group Sub Pieces
    This option enables automatic grouping of objects broken up by a
    CSG Subtraction.

  Show Entities
    Toggles display of entities in all views.

  Crosshair
    Toggles the crosshair (your editing position) in the 3d view.

  Brush Info
    Display brush info for current scope at top of each window.

  Coord Info
    Display coordinate info of what the mouse cursor is over at top of
    each window.

  Real Coord
    Toggles the real coordinate system on and off.  If you turn this
    off, and scope down into an object, the origin changes to the center
    of the object.


Advanced Config

  Unsaved Query
    Should Qoole ask if you want to save unsaved changes before going
    to a new map or exiting?

  Save Win Positions
    Save window positions between sessions.

  Auto Default Layout
    Use default window layout after Qoole window is scaled or
    fullscreen mode is toggled.

  Xmouse
    Unix-style Xmouse toggle.  Nifty.

  Auto Center
    When scoping down, automatically centers the view to the object.

  Auto Move Mode
    After adding a brush, if in an eye mode, switch to object move mode.

  Switch 3D View Clicks
    Switches what the left and right mouse buttons do in 3d eye move
    and rotate modes.

  No 3D View Editing
    Toggle to disallow editing in the 3d view.

  Wireframe During Changes
    Switch to wireframe render during changes or eye moves, for
    faster operation.

  Solid During Changes
    Switch to solid render (if in textured) during changes or eye
    moves, for faster operation.
  
  Lock Buttons
    Display lock buttons in the top right of each window for more
    control over view locking.

  Scaled Mouse
    Mouse movements scaled based on current 2d zoom rate for object
    manipulations.

  Animated Textures
    Toggle animation of textures.

  Texture Scroll Wait
    When scrolling through textures, wait until the user pauses
    before updating.

  Texture Mipmaping
    Toggle level of detail (LOD) on and off.  Distant textures look
    better with this on.

  Entities While Textured
    Toggle if entities should be shown while in texture rendered mode.


7.  Compiling and running your maps
-----------------------------------

Before you can load a map in Quake, you need to compile it into the
".bsp" format that Quake understands.  There are 3 utilities used to
convert a Quake map: qbsp.exe, light.exe and vis.exe.  QBSP converts
the map into the .bsp format used by Quake.  Light adds the lighting
information to the .bsp file.  Vis optimizes the .bsp file to improve
Quake's run-time performance.  You can run these programs from the
Export BSP window.

Often there will be errors compiling your map with qbsp, light and
vis, and a ".bsp" file won't be produced for your map after running
these programs.  These are usually caused by problems in your Quake
maps.

A few of the common problems people run into include building an
entire Quake map out of liquid textures by mistake, or forgetting to
include a player start position in the level.  QBSP warns you of
these problems when it tries to compile your map.  If you get an
error message, try to find out what the problem is, fix it, and
re-run QBSP.  

The Quakelab web site has organized a very detailed list of Quake map
compiling problems and solutions.  If you meet an error message that
you don't understand, please check this informative resource first.

The problem listing is included in the /Quakelab directory on the
Qoole CDROM, and may also be downloaded from the Quakelab Editing Web
Site on the Internet at http://www.planetQuake.com/Quakelab/problems.html.


----
Document (C)1997 by Lithium Software.  All rights reserved.
