Random Anarchy
by PoZ-i

Fun with Fire and Smoke
-----------------------

This may sound obvious, but *much* fun can be had with fire. You'd be
Surprised at the amount of things that burn exceptionally well, 
especially with a little help. Here are some ideas.

#1) Flame Throwers
    Take any spray can; hold a lighter by the nozzle, and spray!
#2) Car Mayhem
    Light something, throw it under a car, and wait for the owner to
    come running!
#3) Flour Fire-ball
    Get a candle and some flour.  Light the candle and put some flour
    in your hand.  Try various ways of getting the flour to leave your 
    hand and become dust over the candle flame.  The enormous surface 
    area allows all the tiny dust particles to burn all at about the 
    same time creating a fireball effect. 
#4) Molotov Cocktail
    This now famous device is easy to make, but deadly when used.
    Simply take a glass bottle (a milk bottle will do fine) and fill
    with 3/4 petrol or lighter fluid, and 1/4 oil. Shake this mixture
    well. Dip a piece of torn rag into the mixture, and stuff it into 
    the neck of the bottle. If no rags are available, a tampon works 
    just as well. Light the rag, then throw the bottle, making sure it 
    smashes. The oil makes the mixture stick to surfaces.
#4) Fire Fudge
    Take some flour, and mix it in with petrol. The resulting mixture 
    should have a dough like consistency. You could throw it at a window
    or wall, and then light, or you could make a modified molotov cocktail
    with it. (see above)
#5) Carrier Bags
    Take some carrier bags, and stuff then into a crack in a window, or on 
    someone's doorstep. Burn them, and they melt to form a sticky gooey mess
    that is very hard to remove!
#6) Thermite
    This one needs some before hand preparation, so plan a week ahead.
    Thermite is basically a material, that when lit, takes advantage of
    the extremely hot (2200 degrees C) exothermic reaction that is produced
    when finely powdered aluminum filings are mixed with Ferric Oxide (rust)
    The two materials should be mixed at a 50/50 ratio, and gently heated
    until the iron glows red hot. The resulting material, when lit, will 
    burn through most materials, including carbonized steel! It is very 
    difficult to light however, and the best way to do so is using a 
    magnesium strip.
#7) Smoke!
    This crude but effective smoke bomb will produce *a lot* of smoke when
    made correctly. Simply mix together Potassium Nitrate (also known as
    Salt Petre) and sugar, in the ratio 3:1. Add some sulfur for some more
    smoke if necessary. Heat the mixture in a tin can gently, as you don't
    want a whole batch of this stuff going off in your kitchen. Heat it
    until the sugar melts. You should now have a white mixture, with sticky
    lumps in it. Simply throw a camping match in the tin to light! A fuse
    is recommended, as the amount of smoke this baby produces will turn heads.
    I know from experience that this is *very* effective!
#8) More smoke!
    This is another way to make lots of smoke, very easily. Simply mix 
    6g of zinc powder with 1g of sulfur powder. Stick a red-hot wire into
    the mixture, and stand back, as much smoke is produced.
#9) Spray-can bomb.
    This relatively small explosive is perfect if you are short of any 
    'proper' explosive materials. It uses the gases inside a spray can 
    (butane, propane) to create an mild explosion.
    You will need:

    1) a spray can (WD-40 is best, as the oil is also flammable, but any old deoderant can  will     do) 
    2) firelighters (if no firelighters are avaiable, then a bundle of rags 
    soaked in petrol or lighter fluid would work)
    3) Something to light it with
    4) a large elastic band or piece of string

Take the cap and the nozzle off the can, then using the elastic band or 
string, tie the fire lighters, or your other flammable material to either
side of the can.

Now light the flammable material, and run! you will have around 30 secs 
to a minute, depending on what materials you used. When the can heats up enough, it will explode, lighting the contents, and producing a loud bang!, accompanied by a reasonable fireball.

The more cans that are used, the louder, and larger the explosion!

Stealing
--------

Stealing stuff from shops if surprisingly easy, especially if you have
a mate to help. Most shop keepers are so dumb they wouldn't notice if
you took the till away from under their noses.
however, People don't notice stuff, but camera's do. 
*Never* take anything when in view of a camera, (unless you are on 
holiday in Germany of course) unless you want to get caught. 
Understand though, there are different types of camera. First there are 
the ones that are totally fake. These are tricky to spot, but they usually
have a 'realistic' flashing light. My advice is don't risk it, there are 
easier places to rob from. Leave any cameras alone, unless they are the
type that don't actually record anything, they just let the shop keeper
look at the other end of the shop. If these are in place, simply get a 
friend to distract the dick behind the counter, while you get the 
stuff. This is probably the best method to steal anything. Get a friend
or friends to go in one area of the shop, and look really suspicious.
All attention will be diverted to them, while you take the stuff.

When taking stuff, the best clothes to wear, are combat trousers (the type
with really big pockets in the legs), and any jacket with many pockets, 
especially the hidden type. Also wear a cap, so that if you are accidentally
caught on camera, it will be harder for them to recognize you.

If you do happen to notice a shopkeeper following you after you have taken 
something, simply replace the items on a shelf, any shelf. If they take you
in when you still have stuff in your pockets, but you haven't left the shop,
simply say that you haven't had the chance to pay, and that you had every 
intention of paying. Even if you get prosecuted, they won't have any kind of
a case against you, as you could have still paid.

Coin Vending Machines
---------------------

This is an idea to fuck over a coin vending machine:

Most modern machines work by passing an electric current through the coin, and
judging the value of it by the amount of resistance it offers. So what would
happen if you were to pour a salt-water solution into the coin slot? The whole
fucking machine would start throwing out money and chocolate randomly! Try it! You'll Like It!


