
                       :..::..File 2 Of 14.::..:
                       :...Beating Car Alarms..:
                       :..::.:.By Franco.:.::..:

<*> Car alarms, imobilisers and additional locks

Can I just start by setting out the world of differnce between an
imobiliser and a car alarm. Yes, I'm explaining it, there are some out
there that don't actually know this so...

An alarm is a device or, a series of devices, that have various guards,
(siren, doors locks etc.) to deter or hinder the vehicle being driven
away. The job of an imobiliser is to stop criminals from starting the
engine and driving away. The various types are separated by the number
of circuits. These circuits can be controlled brakes in electrical
transmission to the engine and its components, starter motor, fuel pump
etc. until it is disarmed. This array of circuit breaks is controlled
by a series of electronic relays inside the imobiliser's black box,
brain, which cuts the power. The most common setup in an imobiliser is
that which comprises a transponder key fob. This is were near the
ignition, fitted is an aerial receiver, when the transponder is passed
close by it automatically sends a signal which when recognised allows
the car's engine to start. In some cases the imobilisers, the car's
engine will start but the gearbox movements will be inoperative and
so... no go!

(I) Imobilisers
(II) General information on imobilisers and alarms 
(III) Alarms
(IV) Additional locks (steering locks, gear locks and pedal locks)

(I) IMOBILISERS

These are fairly new line of car protection with the first few, proper
imobilisers appearing around 1992. Nothing much has changed since
really, all that's been developed is the more amount of cuts available
and various features which can be associated to them. I'll get on to
the SMART imobilisers at the end of this section. Now, imobilisers come
in many different shapes and forms and manufacturers. For instance, if
your target car has a sticker with the words "Protected by Clifford
systems" or "CAT" then forget about it, as these are second to none and
I've never heard of a car with this security being nicked so in all
honesty you and I, yes I the master, wouldn't stand a chance!

Imobilisers consist of three main parts, the brain, the power source
(which can be independent of the car battery), the cuts and a siren of
sorts, (this is optional for some). To beat them... well if we can
because they are SERIOUSLY HARD to beat, depends on two main factors:

(a) If its been installed DIY style and there's a mass of wires and
indeed the imobiliser is visible and easy reach and the number of
cuts to the engine. If its DIY style then hopefully it will of been
installed far away from the bulkhead and with luck on your side
visible.

(b) If the stickers on the window say MOSS security or some low budget
system then you will have better odds at beating the brain transponder
and the aerial, also many of the low budgeters use only one circuit.

Getting down to it... to un-imobilise you're gonna need one or two
things:

1. your mate to keep an eye out as always.
2. wire cutters.
3. crocodile clips.
4. a bit of wire.
5. screwdrivers (assorted).
6. electrical tape.
7. 12 volt test meter.
8. some big balls and a lot of nerve.

The imobiliser that I will be trying to show how to disarm is one that
operates with a transponder key fob, though there are similarities in
systems that don't incorporate this feature. SEE IMOBILISERS/ALARMS
EXPALINED ABOVE AT THE START.

METHOD NO 1. Now first off get into the car, once in, rip away at the
underneath of the dash near the ignition. In an effort to confuse the
criminal, some manufacturers only give the owner the wires in one
colour, (black) which once the installer has removed the identification
stickers, it leaves the perspective thief to cry and walk away unless
they know, and I mean know, the system well and have bundles of time.

Scan the wires leading from the imobiliser to the cut points which
should be obvious as wires will of been spliced and cut and then
re-joined again and the more evident this is the better your chances of
success are, one sure way of finding cut points is by looking for
different wire colours merged together or spend a bit of time with the
old trusty meter. Once you've found these cut points, jam them together
with tape to recreate the original circuit. ALL OF THE BREAKS MUST BE
RESTORED BEFORE YOU CAN DIRVE AWAY. Then give the engine a try and...
if you hear that sweet adrenaline pumping sound of an engine ticking
over and running then, yes you're set to drive away, WUPEEEEEEEE! If
not... fuck that!

METHOD NO. 2. This were you locate the imobiliser circuits and attempt
to restore the correct settings by trying to get the relays to switch
over to the preffered settings. This is where it gets vague big style!
What I suggest is that you attempt to do the above by means of
electrical current from an external supply or if the relays are of
consequent size, switch them by hand. Or... you could beat the crap out
of it with a hammer though I don't think you'll find much success
there!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

                                     TIP

If you want a vehicle with little hassle then don't go near a car with
an imobiliser as working on imobilisers is a time consuming business
with only a 38% chance of success (approx.). Also if the stickers on
the window read the words "CAT" or "CLIFFORD" systems then walk away as
they are second to none!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

(II) SMART IMOBILISERS/ALARMS 

The most recent and in many cases the most expensive incorporate
various features such as auto locking doors and windows which locks
them unless a specific code or device is inputted to the brain. Others
include the rather drastic but very successful smoke imobilisers which
can release a non harmful gas to imobilise the thief or hinder his/her
view when trying to drive away. For those who want to kill any one who
touches their car, the gases can be changed so that you die instead of
being put temporally asleep and the owner will get off scott free!
Some incorporate these, though there's a 99% chance that you'll never
encounter this. Another is where the chair can be changed so that in
the case of the car being stolen and if you don't input whatever into
the brain, electrical elements within the chair will electrocute you
until you're a sizzling mound of bone and fleshy goo, NASTY no? Another
is where the car stereo can be set to blast you with whatever music to
alert and draw attention to the thief. Imagine being caught in a car
blaring out BILLIE at 90 decibels, embarrassing would not be the word.

In a similar instance the imobiliser can be set to either ring or page
the owner or police with a preprogrammed message such as "Help help.
I'm being stolen my owners address is ?? and my G.P.S. position is ??"
Yes someone can track your every move which brings me on to the
TRACKER. This is what's known as a quiet alarm as it doesn't always
notify the thief that the car is being tracked. The tracker rings or
sends out a special distress signal to the police in the area and the
cars every movement is logged and being watched as you drive and once
the system is engaged the police will of already hopped into their
Cossie response unit and will be up your arse before you know it!

(III) ALARMS 

Well after that depressing reminder that imobilisers are hard you're
gonna want to hear something nice and so... alarms are easier to beat
depending on a couple of things, how many devices the alarm comprises
of and whether or not it has it's own power supply and how well hidden
it is. And so to a brief sum up of the devices incorporated in
different alarms, a motion detector, door/bonnet/boot switches, timing
circuits, steering movement, distance sensor, ride height and siren,
(all of which can be tied into the entire system). All of these devices
can be nasty if the system has its own power supply independent of the
engine. To the methods...

(I'M GONNA POINT OUT RIGHT NOW THAT THE OBVIOUS AND QUICKEST METHOD
WITH 50% TO 70% SUCCESS WILL BE EXPLAINED BUT I FEEL THAT KNOWLEDGE
SHOULD BE GAINED AND THAT YOU SHOULD EDUCATE YOURESELF RATHER THAN
KNOWING THE BARE ESSENTIALS!)

METHOD NO. 1. Based on the idea that the "ALARM RUNS OFF THE CAR
BATTERY" either lift the bonnet up if you can without setting the alarm
off, if at all possible or smash a window a pull the bonnet release
catch inside the car. With practice your speed and confidence will
increase. Once the bonnet is up then disconnect the positive or
negative terminals or both. Don't let either terminals make contact
with one another when one side is connected or you could have the
battery blow up in your face, not very helpful when trying not to draw
attention to yourself!!. Once disconnected enter the car as you like.
You have two options on trying to locate the alarm box, either are very
messy, rip away at the dash by the ignition approach or wherever the
alarm is disarmed from and follow the wires back, the other way is to
search the interior and engine bay frantically and with a bit of common
sense and experience you will recognise the set patterns and placement
of alarms and the devices and the physiology of it all which can and
does speed up your technique.

Now back to the job at hand, once you've neturalised the power source
and found the alarm the idea is to gain access to it and either short
it out (which can lead to various problems explained later), or try and
disarm it by making the appropriate circuits electrically. To do this
it's trusty meter time with a dollop of common sense and electronic
sense mixed in. Bring to a boil and after examining the alarm's
circuits, it should be obvious or at least you will have a suspicion of
what circuits need opening and closing. And so you do this, reconnect
the battery and drive away.

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

                                     TIP

An alarm does not stop you from driving away in the car but it does
hinder your driving in that some will cause headlights and windscreen
wipers etc. to function regularly and make you stand out. A car in a
blazing hot dry day with wipers going from side to side and lights
flickering on incessantly would attract my attention for certain!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

METHOD NO. 2 Based on the premise that "THE ALARM HAS IT'S OWN POWER
SUPPLY" you're gonna have to work EXTRA QUICK as undoubtedly once one
of the alarm implements is violated or activated etc. the alarms going
to go off and we can't have that for too long! Now after setting off
the alarm your first priority is to disable the siren as this brings in
the most amount of attention. Now this is where the physiology comes
into play again, many people install the sirens under the bonnet with
the idea that it will be heard a lot louder, and rightly so but this is
where the exploit lies. When the siren first sounds from you opening
the bonnet to looking for one or whatever, the siren although awkwardly
placed most of the time it's easy to disarm with wire cutters.

The owner's misconception is in as to what is good positioning of the
sound device is that they will in many cases believe the more awkward
it was for them to drill the pilot holes and wire up and install it,
the harder it is for the criminal to cut the wires or disarm it by
other means. The other fault is that many people who install them will
think of it being made inoperative with the use of a clumsy 7lb lump
hammer or crowbar which is hardly ever the case! With main alarm
feature disabled, you move onto other important devices which may be
restricting access to indicator use etc. This can be a major problem if
you need the car for something inconspicuous and low key. All that you
need to do in this case is simply rewire the indicators under the dash
or wherever the alarm intersects the light circuits to the original.

If you can't do this there and then as in most cases, just take the car
to some quiet/safe spot and work on the circuits there or you could try
your hand at the alarm circuits itself. I feel it prudent to point out
the fact that if your seen driving a car that has its lights/windscreen
wipers going on and off the police if in the area will pick this up
straight away as its a direct sign that a car's alarm may still be
partially active and they will of seen it time and time again. Also,
removing the battery from the alarm isn't always a good idea because if
the current is not flowing in some cases the circuits won't make and
some vital features won't function, but with that being said if you
were to use a null battery or complete the circuit with a low power
source you might get away with it. So, disabling an independently
powered alarm isn't all the headache as it seems.

METHOD NO. 3 (THE EASY WAY!!!!!) This is where you open up the bonnet
if the alarm runs off the car battery and you separate the alarms
source of power form the rest of the cars and hey presto, the alarm
stops and you're not noticed.

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

                                     TIP

When trying to lift up bonnets without going inside of the car, it can
be a good learning experience to go to scrap yards and familiarise on
the movements and characteristics of different manufacturer's catches.
Sounds sad to some people but there's nothing sad about quickening your
entry times etc. into cars as a stay in prison and a criminal record
sounds pretty sad to me!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>
 
(IV) Steering wheel locks, gear locks and pedal locks

(1) STEERING WHEEL LOCKS

These are usually chosen by either the over cautious or those without
any real form of defense for the car and are just trying to deter
the opportunist. The locks come in many shapes and sizes with varying
features i.e. the colour, yellow or light yellow. The principal behind
them is that in the case of a steering lock that a bar for some strong
titanium metal etc. is positioned such that the wheel cannot be turned
more than one fifth turn approx. and effects the turning circle of the
car making it impossible to drive round a 45 degree turn and greater.
This is so when the bar which extends out from the lock is placed
either across the wheel or dash. In the case of the dash the only way
to free movement would be to cut a 360 circle around the steering
column but then again you could ask the owner to give you the keys and
kiss your ass and expect more joy, not bloody likely!

If it's a bar across the steering wheel then it's easier but not much.
Firstly in most cases the lock is put on the wrong way giving to much
leeway or turn of the steering wheel, if this is the instance, you can
cut away at the dash, it hits slash/move back or remove the seat which
it will invariably hit and the piece of door trim in its path. Now
those are the extreme cases if you have a lot of time to work on the
car and intend on pissing the owner off and its in a secluded spot.
Here comes the sensible option, you can either use the petrol cutter
approach (you need a secluded car and it makes too much noise (ENOUGH
SAID). Pick the lock or gouge away at the locking pieces of metal which
form the actual lock.

(a) Picking the lock
(b) Disrupting the meeting pieces of metal which form the lock
(c) I ALREADY SAID ENOUGH!

(a) Picking the lock in many cases can be far easier and vice versa
than performing approach (b). First off, if it is a new lock on the bar
or steering wheel i.e. its one of those you see on a bicycle lock 
cryptinite, different to normal pin tumble style locks then either turn
to the next step or walk away. I'm not kidding, those types of locks
are almost impossible to pick! If on the other hand it locks like a
normal lock, pin tumble them... you have a chance. Pick this the way
you would any other lock of its style and with a bit of luck it should
open.
 
(b) To do this you will need a couple of tools, a couple of jimmies
(crowbars), a strong screwdriver and in many cases a mate to hold and
help. Got all these, great! Firstly examine the lock and attempt to
determine whereabouts underneath the metal covering the two opposing
locking metal prods are, if the cover is plastic then rip it off. The
idea is that as you bend the metal covering of the steering wheel lock
(in many cases part of the lock mechanism) such that the other piece of
the lock becomes momentarily detached and has nothing opposing it's
movement and that you can twist the lock apart. READ THIS AGAIN AND
YOU'LL GET IT! I just want to sat right here that it is POSSIBLE for
this to happen because I know someone who had it happen to him and the
lock was only three years old and pretty impregnable, and they weren't
exactly car thieves supreme. YES THEY WERE CAUGHT AND DEALT WITH BUT
THAT'S ANOTHER STORY. 

(2) PEDAL LOCKS

In this case depending on the age and manufacturer of the lock then it
will be either cryptinite style or other. The same ideas apply as from
part (b) and in some severe cases part (c). Another solution is to
loosen the screws/bolts that hold the pedal concerned in place and slip
it out of its locked state and replace. This though depends if the
other end of the lock is still attached to the steering wheel which
means you've still got a problem! The loosening of the pedal may also
cause problems with tension that is needed for the appropriate pulling
force on the actual accelerator under the bonnet to function and in
many cases if not all, you will find it next to impossible (without the
appropriate tensioning tools) to replace as the line will have been
secured and taught with both attached etc.

(3) GEAR LOCKS

These style of locks are rapidly going out of use and there aren't all
that many variants either. Again the same conditions etc. apply for (b)
and (c) in severe instances. Though there is one exploit of the common
gear lock, in many cars, such as Vauxhalls e.g. the Vauxhall Astra mk
III the covering comes detached quite easily and if you can manage to
remove and cut away at this then you may be able to slip and slide the
hook off and result in free gear movemnets. There is one final exploit
though, if you're working on a crappy budget car e.g. a Yugo (SHAME ON
YOU. I HOPE THAT YOUR WORKING ON THE CAR TO BRING IT TO A SCARYARD
OR CRUSHERS OR HOPING TO DRIVE IT OFF A CLIFF!) Anyway, the other
avenue of choice is to try and locate the screws and/or bolts that hold
the handbrake in place.

If these are covered up by part of the lock and the metal looks too
hard to bend then don't proceed. If though, you can see the screws or
bolts then unfasten them so the handbrake unit becomes loose, now
depending on the tension it remains questionable if you'll be able to
cut the steel wire which will in turn leave the unit free to move and
with fingers crossed will allow the gear stick to be moved side ways
and back and fourth with the lock still attached. The "BIG" drawback is
that you'll have no handbrake whatsoever!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

                              THE END

That's all folks... for now. If you have any questions, corrections etc
or just want to talk, you can e-mail me at crops@indigo.ie. BUB BYE...

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
