
                       :..::..File 3 Of 14.::..:
                       :Introduction To Carding:
                       :..::.:.By Axcess.:.::..:

<*> NOTES

  It's spelt axcess with a lowercase `a'; POSIX naming conventions,
  thank you. RipperTM is dead, axs lives on. Thanks for your time.


<*> PREAMBLE

  This file deals with the fundamentals of Credit Card Fraud. We will
  try to cover all subjects here, but remember this is only a primer.
  Credit Card Fraud is one subject where real knowledge only comes from
  hands on experience.

  It is also the debut for my WFF File ID utility, which is part of the
  WFF file format suite. E-mail me for more info, or request my
  projects file. The line below stamps the file with an expiry, a
  categorisation, author, and contact address. WFF File ID is free, so
  get a copy off me now!

  {#1byt.dbsejoh/uyuÿ9:79ÿ7hzÿ2czuBhtggwm0eqoÿ9R€jwwr}*)Jw)Rw}{xm~l}rxw)}x)Lj{mrwpÿ8\}|wzqit{ÿ13715::ÿ3qrqh#}

  The official song for this article is Bedrock's Set In Stone from the
  Euphoria two CD set. Yeah, I always do that :).


<*> INTRODUCTION

  First off, a few basic rules that should always be followed:

    a) Never card for profit. This is a big no-no, as in most
       countries, if you get caught, the penalty is far worse than
       doing it for personal use (sounds like drugs, doesn't it?) :)

    b) Never go over the cash limit on the card, and if you aren't sure
       of the cash limit, don't go over £400. This is just a precaution
       but if you want to risk it, you can go up to £1000.

    c) Never use a delivery address for longer than two weeks. Using it
       for any longer than above said is just too big a risk. I have
       had personal experience of this one, and it's not funny.

    d) Never tell your mates, el33t hax0r dud3z, your mum, cat, dog,
       girlfriend, or otherwise about what you are doing. This is a
       classic trust no-one case. If your mum asks you where you got
       that lovely flat screen, make up some bullshit, but never the
       truth. It is advisable to stick to internal goods if buying
       stuff for computers.

    Ok, I think we're just about ready to go on, don't you? :)


<*> STEP 1: SEEK

  The process of getting the actual card numbers is almost always the
  most difficult part. Methods I have used successfully have included:

    o CompuServe (for countries with computerised signup) E-mails
      (bullshite).

    o Insecurities on Internet Billing Servers (recommended).

    o Picking information out of company accounts (very easy, but
      requires the company to bring you in to do work for them first).

    o Microsoft Windows NT/Transaction Server vulnerabilities
      (unlikely).

    o Trashing.
      (recommended).

  Another method I have never been desperate enough to try is burglary,
  it sucks because you aren't guaranteed a reward and also the risks
  involved are just too high.

  We will discuss all of these later. First you need to know the basic
  information you are trying to acquire:

    o Credit Card number.

    o Expiry date.

    o Postal address for holder.

    o Postal code.

    o Telephone number.


  The following information would be completely valid for transaction
  if it were real, i.e. All the information ever asked for is here:

      Number     : 4921 1337 1337 1337
      Start Date : Jan 1998
      Expiry     : Dec 2005

      First      : John
      Last       : Dickson
      Telephone  : (01222) 648223

      Address 1  : 16 Longridge Court
      Address 2  : Stockingstown
      Address 3  : Cardiff

      Postal     : CA11 2DF


  Now you know what to look for, lets get explaining the techniques in
  acquiring the information in the first place.

  CompuServe E-mails

    A bit of a shitty technique which I used only once. This requires
    you to be in a country that allows computerised account signup
    (currently all I think).

    Basically, sign up using fake details, although keep your name to
    something that sounds 'CompuServey', like "CompuServe Staff" or
    "Accounts Department".

    CompuServe's Credit Card validation system is not real-time, as of
    the size of the CompuServe network, so you can use fake Credit Card
    details that pass the standard simple validation algorithms. My
    favourite program for producing these numbers has to be Beazly's
    Number Generator which I can give you on request, although it is
    available from nearly every warez kiddie's web site in the world.

    After signing up, the idea is simple, compose an e-mail message
    that sounds very formal, then post it off to random addresses on
    the CompuServe network. Pretty basic eh? Pretty bollocks eh?


  Insecurities on Internet Billing Servers

    A difficult one, but the results are always 100% accurate and
    detection rates are near nil if you do it right.

    I won't go into much detail on this one here, as Cyborg said 4K and
    there are already hundreds of files on the subject. The basic
    technique is to find small online stores (and even sometimes big
    ones), then locating their billing server by submitting a dummy
    transaction and watching the addresses your web browser redirects
    between.

    Then, using a WinGate port scanner (one available from me), work
    out if the machine is an NT machine or not. If it is, see the
    section on Microsoft Windows NT. You can tell, because UNIXes
    don't usually have the NetBIOS ports (137-139) open and because
    if the machine is running a web service, it will report back
    "Microsoft IIS" or something like that if you Telnet to port 80.

    Using exploits, such as those found at RootShell or Fyodor's
    exploit world, gain access to the machine and retrieve the billing
    database. I told you I was going to be vague!


  Picking Information Out of Company Accounts.

    This must be the easiest of them all, as all that is required is
    Administrator access (if NT based) to the accounts machine, and
    while the employees aren't looking, just pull up Credit Card
    details for customers or the company (try under Sales and Purchase
    Ledgers).


  Microsoft Windows NT / Transaction Server Vulnerabilities.

    An NT based system that comes as part of Microsoft Back Office.
    There are two things you can do in this case, either:

      a) use the example administration forms that could possibly have
         been foolishly left on the server, or

      b) use one of the many NT server exploits available, such as one
         of the following popular ones:

          o The Red Button Exploit  (ntsecurity.net)

           o The Active Server Pages hole (j.llibre@codetel.net.do)

          o The IIS Slash Problems (e.g.: domain.com/..\..\acc\cc.mdb)

          o Incorrectly Configured Index Servers (Rhino9's MHD).


  Theft or Burglary.

    Pure and simple theft, pick-pocketing or otherwise. Risks are high,
    chances of not getting what you want are high too, avoid it like
    the plague.


  Trashing

    This is not for the faint hearted (believe me)! Try to avoid homes
    if trashing, instead, find businesses, where there is more paper in
    the bins and less nappies, tampons, rotting fruit, and dog shit.


<*> STEP 2: ORDERING

  The easiest method of ordering is with a company that has a fully
  computerised accounts/dispatch system, as no operators are involved.
  I know I was asked to write this for the global community, but I
  haven't got a clue about most other places, so I used British
  examples. Good examples of fully automated dispatch systems are:

    o Maplin
      CashTel Modem Dialup - you need an account first though, which
      simply requires you to place an order via telephone first. Hard.

    o Next
      http://www.next.co.uk/


  I believe the following have full automation too, although I'm not
  too sure:

    o The Software Warehouse
      http://www.software-warehouse.co.uk/

    o Sun Microsystems
      http://www.sun.com/. Rush out and get your copy of Solaris now
      while the offer is still on!

    o Microsoft
      You really need their URL? Probably - their actual Europe site is
      http://eu.microsoft.com/

    o The Amazon
      http://www.amazon.com/


  I wouldn't advise you try and order over the phone, it's just too
  suss. Another thing to note, some Internet sites and companies will
  call the owner of the Credit Card to confirm a redirection address.


<*> STEP 3: SAFE-HOUSE

  Possibly the most important aspect of the job, the Safe House, must
  be perfect. If anything goes wrong with the Safe House, the whole
  operation is bust. Literally.

  Finding a Safe House is relatively hard, what you are looking for is
  one that is quite prominent, but at the same time quite isolated,
  empty, and will be empty for at least 20 days. Use any methods
  necessary (Trashing, bugging PCPs, etc.) to find out when the
  occupants will be vacating the house and when they will be back. Also
  try to find out where keys are stored, alarm codes, if people will be
  calling to check on it, etc.

  Try to build up a datasheet like the following (this is the one I
  use):

    Address   :
              :
              :
    Post Code :
    Telephone : (     )           Fax :

    Alarm Code:
    Key Stored:

    Start Date:   /  /
    End Date  :   /  /

    Notes     :
              :
              :

  There's nothing wrong with assessing more than one house for a job,
  For a particular job I did a while ago, I had 3 extra houses at my
  disposal!


<*> STEP 4: THE DELIVERY & PICK UP

  Having the goods delivered is a little step that must be done
  correctly otherwise you won't have a bollock were your goods are in
  transit. That makes you nervous. Good carriers to use are the ones
  that have check-up services that allow you find out where your goods
  are. Research these, then make sure you specify you want to use your
  own carrier when ordering.

  The ones I tend to use are ones with hubs as close to the Safe House
  as possible, I don't know why, but I always feel that it pays to be
  of the same locality as the driver. For instance, saying "All 'wight,
  mate?" to an English driver when you're from Northern Ireland always
  makes them give me dodgy looks, but then, that's probably just me :).

  Ok now, you've got the date of arrival for your goods, and it's time
  to make some preparation for the arrival. If you have information on
  the keys to the house and the alarm codes, use it to gain entry. Make
  yourself at home, pull the curtains back, switch off the timers, and
  if your in the mood, give the lawn a bit of a trim (joke!).

  Tidy the outside of the house a bit. Make sure there isn't anything
  obvious like notes left to the Milkman or Postman, etc. Remember,
  only 1 in 1000 jobs that the delivery man delivers will be
  fraudulent. He doesn't suspect a thing, so you shouldn't act
  suspicious either. Plus, he probably doesn't give a fuck if it is
  fraudulent or not.

  If you don't have any access information for the house, use some old
  fashioned brute force and ignorance; that's right, use your foot!

  Now, sit back, wait for the delivery man to come, sign for it, and
  run for it!

  Werd-up to Xio & Backa for excelling tekneiq, Project Venona for
  having me, Cyborg for making me write this, Madboar for STILL oweing
  me that beer (you know why)!, evilpinky for being a female, PC Plus
  for RHL 5.1, the US government for ARPANet, ARPANet for the Internet,
  the ISOC for the IETF, the IETF for HTTP, HTTP for all the cool stuff
  it's transferred to me, cool stuff for... you get the idea...

                                           °
                                           Û
                                           ÛÛ°         °ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ
                                           ÛÛÛ       ÛÛÛÛ°    ßÛÛÛÛ
                ÜÜÜÜ           ÜÛÜ        ÛÛÛÛ°     ÛÛÛÛ       ßÛÛÛÛ
              ÜÛÛÛÛÛÛÜ        °ÛÛÛÛ°      ÛÛÛÛ     ÛÛÛÛ°        °ÛÛ°
            ²ÛÛÛÛ  ÛÛÛÛ°        ßÛÛÛÛ°   ÛÛÛÛ      ÛÛÛÛ           °
 ú ú ú ú ú úÛÛÛÛ°ú °ÛÛÛÛ ú ú ú ú úßÛÛÛÛ ÛÛÛ² ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛÛ° ú ú ú ú ú ú
ú ú ú ú ú ú²ÛÛÛ°ú ú °ÛÛÛÜ ú ú ú ú ú úÛÛÛÛ ú ú ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛÛÛ°  ú ú ú ú ú
 ú ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÛÛÛÛ° ú ú ú ú úÛÛÛÛÛÛ° ú ú ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛÛÛ° ú ú ú ú ú
ú ú ú ú ú²ÛÛÛ° ú ú ú úÛÛÛÛ² ú ú ú ÛÛÛ²  ÛÛÛÛ ú ú ú ú ú ú °ÛÛÛÛ  ú ú ú ú
 ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛ° ú ú ú ú úÛÛÛ ú ú ú ÛÛÛ°    ÛÛÛÛ²ú ú ú ú ú ú ÛÛÛÛ ú ú ú ú
        ÛÛÛ           °ÛÛÛ      ÛÛÛ       ßÛß           °ÛÛÛÛß
       ÛÛ²           °ÛÛÛ²     °ÛÛÛÛ                  °²ÛÛÛÛß
        Û°            ²ÛÛÛ²      ²ÛÛ²    °²ÛÛÛÜ     °ÛÛÛÛ°
                      ßÛÛß       ²ÛÛ        ßÛÛÛ° ÛÛÛÛÛ°
                                  ßÛ          ÛÛÛÛÛÛ°       [axcess]
                                   °

                             axs@freeuk.com
                     "axcess has left the building"
                   http://www.axs12.free-online.co.uk

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
