
                       :..::.File 12 Of 14.::..:
                       :..SMTP User Verifying..:
                       :..::..By NeonBunny.::..:

<*>           SMTP User Verifying and Using "User Manager"
             +--------------------------------------------+

SMTP vrfy
---------

SMTP is the service that runs on port 25 of most Internet servers, in
normal use it's used for receiving e-mail for people using that server.
A nice little feature of most SMTP packages is the VRFY command which
some e-mail clients use to check that the user it's sending e-mail to
actually exists on that machine and that it won't bounce back as return
mail (this is now built into the RCPT command too).

The majority of SMTP daemons will allow you to issue the VRFY command
without logging onto their mail server (although it can still be
logged, it's not as easy to trace you if you don't send your e-mail
address as a login). The syntax of the VRFY command goes something
like...

Telnet mail.suckerz.com 25

>Hello this is suckerz.com lame mail system v58.3 at your command, how
>can I help?
VRFY test
>Yup I've got a user called "Test Icle" and his e-mail is
<test@suckerz.com>
VRFY billg
>Nope I've got no one here called billg

There are two variations of this that I've come across, the first acts
as above and will tell you if there is or isn't a user of that name on
the server, this is the typical case of most *nix systems running
sendmail. The second variation occurs when the vrfy command has been
turned off and here 2 things can happen either it says that it has 
every user you ask it, if this was the case the mail.suckerz.com would
report that it had user test, billg and kjsdhfkj. These can be
identified by VRFY-ing a few hits on the keyboard. This happens on NT's
IIS machines because but instead of removing the command it just tells
you what you want to hear. The other thing you may come across when the
VRFY command has been turned off is a message telling you this and
asking you to use the RCPT command instead, to do this simply log on
with:

HELO www.microsoft.com

give a fake

MAIL FROM: root@hotmail.com

and then either try

RCPT user
or 
RCPT user@server.com

and this will tell you if the user exists although won't tell you their
full name as it does with VRFY

Some machines require you to log on and can be identified easily as
below:

Telnet mail.suckerz.com 25

>Hello this is suckerz.com lame mail system v58.3 at your command, how
>can I help?
VRFY test
>Hey log on to me first, I think you should log on with the user name
>the.hackerbox.mil

So it basically knows roughly who you are anyway, by sending the HELO
command this should please the SMTP service enough to let you VRFY or
RCPT users. The HELO command should be in the format of...

HELO 123.123.123.123
or
HELO my.hostname.com

If the machine queries the fake response you may as well give it your
IP since it's already logged anyway. While this will let you past the
nagging "log on" messages chances are you'll just meet a variation 2
service once you've hit a few more keys.

User Manager
------------

User Manager simply automates this process by VRFY and RCPT-ing a list
of users to give you valid accounts to crack (e.g. stevej) as well as 
unearthing possible insecure users (e.g. test) or even identifying the
machine's O/S (e.g. nobody4).

Using the file menu load a user list which will pop-up in the top list
box, enter the server in the box under the SMTP category and hit Limit,
this will create a copy of the user file called c:\temp.tmp which it
uses to work from and is deleted at after each scan. The program will
then connect to port 25 of the server and begin VRFY/RCPT-ing users,
the good users appear in the good list and the bad users in the bad
list (obviously) when the process is finished all of the good users are
transferred to the top main user list where typical procedures can be
performed e.g. adding users, removing users and saving.

There is a user list (created by my fair hands) supplied with the
program which has proven to be useful in the past but the program will
work with any user list you may already have.

Future developments may include the ability to crack users directly
from the user list, i.e. a point and click hacker.

                               NeonBunny

	               the_neon_bunny@hotmail.com

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
