

  A REAL VOICE CHANGER

are you sick of people recognizing your voice when you call them at 3am ?? are you
damn tired of hoping no one records all these calls and gives them to the law??
i have two words for you. digital delay.

now you can stop using those robot toys with the wierd straw thing.. stop tweaking those
walkie talkies and stop asking the sales guy at radio shack if they sell any voice
scramblers.  a digital delay is an audio device mainly used for echo.  however this
device actually changes the waveform of your voice if you set the delay high enough.
you can understand what your saying but it sounds nothing like you.  you could call
someone 5 times in a row and change your voice enough that they would think 5 diffrent
people called them.  

so how is that useful?  well its good for all sorts of fun shit.  reporting false crimes..
changing your pitch a little so you can get a chick's info out of the phone company..
pretending to be important people with really important sounding voices... and it really
freaks your friends out.  i picked one up at a garage sale for dirt cheap its an ibanez
1000 .. dont expect to find one i just got lucky.  thier pretty costly new but its worth
every penny. its about the size of a notebook and 4 times as thick.  runs on 120vac but
it is possible to convert some power supplies to take dc input from the car. its kinda
model specific.  

and how do i hook this up to my phone?  well for use around the house just pop open your
phone and snip the mic wires.. then wire them to the input of the delay and wire the 
remaining feed wires to the output of the delay.  if you wanna take this technology with
you i suggest you think practical. your not gonna take the delay with you the powersupply
would be too heavy.  but.. you could get some long range radios from your favorite local
easy to steal from wal-mart.   of course you would need 4.  one from the mic back to 
the input of the delay .. one from the output of the delay to another one to the mic
feed.  but it could be done.. 

so whats so great about having your waveform changed?  well.. in a case where someone 
might try to pin you with harrassment charges for calling them all the time you just
make sure you bury your voice deep in a plane of sound and where will thier proof be?
it dosent sound like you? if they wanna break out the hi-tech shit and analyze your 
voice in intricate detail tell them to get fucked.. if they do anyway they wont be able
to get any concrete voice matches.. mild pattern similarities but mostly unrecognizeable.
so go get one.. sell your girlfriend to the pimp down the road and just go pick one up
then you can call him and pretend you are his best ho and lure him into a trap on another
pimp's turf... or you can just forget all this pimp nonsense and just take your 
neighbor's instead.  alright im outta here.