
 ATNT -- TIME TO TEACH YOUR CABLE MODEM SOME NEW TRICKS


ever used a cable modem? pretty fucking fast eh? kinda expensive though.. especially 
considering you really dont get to use it to its full potential.  but now through
this special offer you to can let some poor unsuspecting fool feel the power of the
cable deathstar.  just so you understand how much pipe cable modem has lets break
down the medim real quick.  cable signal is transmitted on coaxial cable, very thick
braided strand wire wrapped around a plastic core that is wrapped around a thick
piece of copper the whole thing is sheilded in foil and wrapped in thick weatherproof
sheathing.  you can hit this wire with a sledgehammer and it will still transmit.
which means its fucking heavy duty, a good solid transfer medium for data. its also
strung across 85% of america, second only to phone lines.  I had a talk with one of
the lineman from atnt about just how cable was transmitted. Standard cable signal 
broadcasts at between 50 and 85mhz.. hbo + extended cable.  your cable modem 
operates around 600mhz.  the tech i talked to said his clocked in at 618mhz. im sure
it varies from place to place.  mr atnt also had with him a CLI 256 .. very handy 
little tool used for sniffing rf and measuring frequency, amplitude etc.  so i 
feel pretty confident that he knows the frequency it operates on.  so i asked 
what the max of this pipe was k wise.. he tells me its capable in perfect data 
conditions of about 900k/sec.  pretty fast.. you wont actually achieve speeds that
high.. but i have broken 500 before.  trust me when i tell you its a BIG PHAT PIPE.

so when you sign up for @home service mr. atnt will tell you.. no domain scanning..
no excessive data transfer.. no giant ftp services.. and no porno. you say " a okay
u.s.a." and he will install your modem careful to not let you hover.  then he will
hand a yellow sheet of paper and a few booklets. discard the booklets immeadiately.
on this yellow sheet of paper will be typed in easy to read letters all the #'s you
need to configure your modem to operate on a diffrent ip from the one they gave you.
atnt is currently not aware that anyone knows how to do this.  well the other day
i had a little lost sector incident and my shit crashed like a bitch. i was able to
ressurect most of blizzard 5 ..  all my dox.. but of course i had to reinstall the
cable modem.. well there arent much for directions around. so i just played fill in
the blank.  all the dns settings, the gateway, and your supposed ip are right on the
yellow sheet.  fill it all in the network settings under tcp/ip and you will force the
network to give you an ip.  once you get online go find superscan and scan your whole
domain.  *.*.*.1 - *.*.*.255 that will reveal most of the users client id's in your
area.  whenever the ip resolves it shows the client id  a####.anytown1.home.com 
that first string is the client id.  this client id is all you actually need to
log in to your @home account.  leave the network settings just like they were for
a dial up account and put your client id in as identification and use @home as the
group.  


but... if you scan the domain you also get all the ip's for the other users so you
enter all the settings.. dns.. gateway.. ip of said person you would like to 
impersonate..  and kaboom.. reboot and you are now mostly them.  if you send mail
it will show from thier ip address.  it will be virtually untraceable back to you..
unless.. 

unless they just happened to be logging mac addresses.. the address your nic sends 
with every packet.  simple solution? switch your nic cards.  get a new nic card 
every week.. trade them off or something. how hard is it to put in a nic? hell just
go steal a box.  now there is also a small silver cylinder.. it is a filter of some 
kind they plant this bad mofo in the cable box.. and you must have it somewhere between
your modem and the cable or it will positively not work.  i dont have an o-scope so
i cant breakdown exactly what it does.. but i know that i have to have it.. theres a
pretty good chance that it is how atnt keeps tabs on its users.. it may also contain
serial information.. simple solution..well until someone cracks this monster filter 
your just gonna have to go jack somebody's, make sure you get the name of the person
in the house who has the cable modem.. call pretending to be atnt and tell them you
are trying to update your records..figure it out.  then call atnt a couple of days 
after you jack thier filter and say you are them.. they will give you a little runaround
about not knowing the security word so just start cursing and saying you fucking forgot
it and your real sorry and they will tell you.. they told me, anyway ..  so then ask
them when the tech will come to repair the problem then take it back before they get 
there.. so now you have about 5 good days to do whatever mad shenanigans you had in
mind.  atnt will be left dealing with a user who says he had no service during the time
the electronic mayhem took place. no where to put the finger. just leave them scratching
thier heads.  

so what would i do? well.. now let me see.. so much pipe so little time.. i would probably
open up a 10gig ftp server for anyone to use for free as much as they wanted to.. then i
would fill up hard drives of local businesses and schools with high quality mpeg porno's.
after that i would probably try to scan an entire subnet.. hell if they were on vacation
i might just try to get the better part of .gov thoroughly scanned.  then i would setup
video servers of my neighbors and broadcast those to people in #stalker irc channels..
after that i'd probably start massmailing 100's of users of the same isp at a time with
messages about mail failure so they stop using the mail server and then i would send an
avalanche of messages to the admin through his own relay server.. and of course he
wouldn't have much traffic so imagine how much data could get plowed through there.. 
but i think ive said enough.. 

alright so i think ive been pretty clear here.. you should now be able to take your cable
modem and impersonate any other user on your network without the FBI knocking away at your
door.  the only other warning i can think to give you is theoretically it is possible they
could eventually trace the actual signal back to you or atleast your general area through 
the line relays.  simple solution.. get a nice laptop with a nic card.. set it up for the
cable modem and then rig a batterypack for your cable modem.  drive across town to a cable
box and help yourself to that pipe.. of course you are gonna have a little dilemna with 
the battery time... but im sure you can work something out.  and the mac address on the
laptop card wont matter as long as you never use it for your own cable account.

since this is all new technology and atnt is new this whole isp game dont expect to see
any serious or amazing work on thier part to unravel the mystery of the stolen ip. in
fact i had a tech from atnt on the phone tell me that it was IMPOSSIBLE. just goes to 
show you how much they really test out that new technology before they release it.

