

- Fax bombing -

So what the hell do you mean anyway? FAX BOMBING. I'm not gonna put a bomb in my fax
machine.  I don't care how cool it will look when it explodes.  DAMNIT. how can i
work with you people. C UR SES.  Okay here's the low down.. Somewhere right now is
a menu driven machine that will call any number in continental u.s. and sometimes
overseas for free and beep right in the ear of any unsuspecting phone answerer. 
That machine is called a faxback server and it is used by technicians and sales
people all over the world to obtain information via fax, or so they would like
to believe that is all it's used for.

gee mr. plague that sounds pretty lame.

yea well FUCK YOU. how do ya like that?

How lame is it to cue 50 calls that will try 3 times each to call the same # in less
than 15 minutes time?  How lame is it to psychologically cripple your enemies so they
are weak for the final call?  

Here's the trick.  You get on the web.  You go to altavista.  You search for faxback
servers.  You write down the #'s of all you find.  Then you call them.  Some of them
really suck, some kick ass. I will include a list of my favorites at the end of this
article.  For now let's concentrate on the present.  The menu breakdown is simple.

first menu - please select service - faxback please
second menu - please select a document number or press one for a list of documents 
              get the list.. if you dont want the list most fax doc #'s are 4 or 5 
              digits, i have good luck with 5000 personally.
third menu - please input the number you want the fax sent to.
             now is the time to wreak you tyrannical revenge.
             input number of hated enemy.
fourth menu - please input a voice telephone # you can be reached at.
              in the essence of speed i usually jsut put 666 but whatever you want.
fifth menu - goodbye or if your lucky please hit some # to return to main menu.
             this is called a loop and is REAL FUCKING HANDY.  it sucks to have to
             redial 50 times, but who can put a price on such a valuable service?

if the fifth menu says goodbye or just hangs up now would be a good time redial. if you
have a dialer its real easy to make short work out of this by putting the # in your dialer.
Especially if you do it from a payphone to your favorite mall store within visible eye line
of the phone booth.  This little trick has got BILLIONS of uses. I have cued more than 
500 calls in 15 minutes.  Back in the good old days seagate faxback was the shit. It had
a big fat loop and once I memorized the menu pattern I could fly through it over and over
on one single call... but eventually the admin started getting harassing calls from a not
so innocent victim with caller i.d. but usually the i.d. comes up as name unavailable.
Try to find faxback servers physically located very far from you.  Since ESS isn't quite
nationwide yet.  Anyway every now and then he would jump on the phone line and harass me
while I was dialing, and I would tell him to go outside and play hide and go fuck himself,
I was on a payphone, I'll be gone before your dumb-admin-ass figures out that all those
calls were cued to your personal office fax anyway.  I really don't like that guy. So
that's it in a nutshell.  Faxbombing is EASY, and effective as a tool against any 
adversary.  Word of warning - don't faxbomb your boss unless your there to watch him
suffer through it.

There is one more thing I want to mention.  There is an online faxback service at
www.ciscofax.com just select a fax for product information, scroll down and click
Search, select one document, click next, then fill in victim's #. (yea thats right
this will also do international #'s) then hit submit now.   actually
as of the release they were having trouble with the sql engine.. maybe it will be 
up soon.

ADVANCED TECHNIQUE

You can cue a gang of calls with ciscofax online just by filling out the same request
over and over using the next document # in the list to the same phone #.  Test it
on yourself first to make sure your on the money. Another online service is 
http://www.magnifoam.on.ca/nflab.htm pretty reasonable interface, fast. 



LISTING

(800) 323-6586 RatShack - annoying and mildly effective

(405) 936-1220 direct dial for seafax - kick ass but not as good 
since they took out the loop 

(800) SEA-GATE toll free for seagate follow menu to seafax

(800) 899-3105 apple faxback - 3 retries 10 minute intervals - same server as seafax

(717) 767-7810 lion faxback 

(800) 222-RETC (2 digit doc #'s) - retc faxback - supposedly fast callback

(303) 742-5000  direct dial for retc

(570) 788-4400  polafix direct dial - 2 digit fax doc #'s (34)

(302) 575-1169  dmi direct dial

(800) 231-7717 <logitech> last time i cued it still had a loop
 -- number sequence -- 8, 2, 2, victim #, 3, 9 

(800) 262-9867 <maxtor> last time i cued it still had a loop
--- number sequence --- 3, 3, 1, 2, victim #, 1, 0 

(613) 728-0826 ext#3080 - nice loop .. fairly responsive menu


there is one more but i cant list it here i like it too much.. its the fastest 
most responsive kick ass faxserver i have ever used.. and it has a loop.. 
i was going to make up some clever riddle but fuck it. here is your clue..


between 208.220.174.1 and 208.220.174.255 there are more open ports than a hoarhouse
in denmark your mission should you choose to accept is to locate the second server 
that does not have an open finger port. that server is the one that has the number
for the faxserver.. you will understand when it resolves.. and on a side note if 
anyone feels like massmailing the users of this fine isp then drop me a line we
should combine our forces. alright. good luck and if you email me with assanine
questions i will come to your house and eat all of your frootloops over with vodka
instead of milk.  i mean it. 

         <<  blizzard of oz taking the world one faxserver at a time  >>