Sooo..

What's the lastest word on credit card transactions?  Porn Passes gained by stolen
credit card #'s has reached an all time high with figures so high they just boggle
the mind.   Yea so fucking what?  So now is a good time to cash in on an already 
giant security nightmare for the FBI.  I know it sounds hard to beleive, the FBI, 
all bent over about to get reamed out.  Well guess what it's all true.  Here's a 
little excerpt i stumbled across that i thought might be of interest to someone
who had an unusually large amount of extra credit cards just lying around the house.
It comes from the Treasury's Financial Crimes Network (FinCEN) document that was
nabbed up by WiRED.

"The development of new technologies -- such as electronic cash, electronic
purses, Internet or smartcard based electronic payment systems, and Internet banking 
-- is increasing the ability of individuals to rapidly transfer large sums of money, 
and could pose a challenge for FinCEN and other law enforcement agencies combating 
money laundering." 


They are currently working on a strategic plan which will be released in late october.
Meanwhile back at the ranch it's time to collect your winnings.  E-commerce is at an 
all time high.  Grab your laptop,  find the nearest accessible phone jack(not your own)
and get a membership at as many live video feeds as you can, find 5 people and give them
all your password.  Congratulations, you just quintupled the amount of work they will have
to do to figure out where the original transaction came from and so they will probably just
not even fuck with it.  I have seen companies give up on tracking mail-bombing because it's
just too much work, most places don't even have anyone qualified enough to do it.  it's
the perfect crime, for now.

IM A FIEND, I NEED NEW STUFF TOO

yea i know the feeling.  well heres the problem.  Most of the companies offering online
transactions will only send to the address the card is billed too.  So now you think your
fucked huh?  Get the SSN for the person who owns the card, call the card company and tell 
them you want to change the billing address.  Card some voicemail accounts (jfax.com offers
a nice package that sounds just like an answering machine.. ) give the # of the voicemail
with a message that could have come from the victim.  Wait 3 days then call back and tell
them you want to verify the billing address and see if they tell you the new address,
if they do then it worked and your set.  Make sure the address you have setup is a good
non-traceable place to send a package.  Vacant houses are the best.  PO boxes are pretty
much not accepted as a valid place to send anything.  Scout the neighborhood, and never 
use the same address more than once.. 

SINCE IM ON THE SUBJECT

speaking of vacant houses, using the voicemail you can also get the phone turned on in the
vacant house.  leave a message on one of the voicemail #'s impersonating a real estate 
company, give that # as a contact for the local phone service because they have to call
and say that there is a new tenant in there.  If your lucky they will leave a # to call
them back at and KABLAM.  you now have a phoneline for about 45 days,  unless you pay it
with a credit card ;) ahahhaahh... < images of chaotic scenes with confused phone customer
service and credit card customer service > alright.. enough of that flashback shit. SO..
you got it?  basically you need to take over a house that does not belong to you in 
order to be really safe about sending carded goods somewhere.

DO US ALL A FAVOR

dont get busted.. if you think you might get caught, you will. dont think about it just
accomplish it in a safe orderly god damn mother fucking manner.  no big deal just another
day at the office.  believe it or not cc companies can tell if you sound nervous on the
phone.  you might want to practice by calling up ISP's and social engineering passwords
out of them. alright so im outta here.   


