

     HACKTRACER

so whats all this about hacktracer?  well.. there's this new piece of software on the
market released by sharp technologies and mp3.com.  its basically nothing more than 
a glorified port watcher.. so what those have been around for YEARS. yes.. but never
before have they offered the ability to contact a special agency that deals only 
with hack attempts.  What do I suggest?

well for now who gives a shit, if this alleged hacker catcher actually works like they
say it does then well know soon enough.  in fact there have been a slew of these 
type of programs.. nortons internet firewall.. the diffrence is this little dittie
acutally shows a map.. kinda like a glorified traceroute to where you are.  i wouldnt
worry, as long you are paying attention.  it dosent matter where it tracks your packet
back to as long as you make sure your not there.  for the dialup user this means if
your gonna attack call 4 states away from yourself before you do it.  if your on a 
dedicated network then do it from someone else's pc, or bounce your packets.  

i have tested a few of these port protectors and they will stop sub7, bo, and quite a
few others, but if you can disable it before it kills your port.. theres a short time
while its booting where you will have 6 or 7 seconds to connect and remove the alleged
port protector, or atleast disable it while you wreak havok.  its also possible that 
said victim will be using some remote software themselves and have the portprotector 
disabled for that port.. you can find out by scanning every single last port they have.
if you locate the remote then the hack is atleast focused.  chances are the same dialup
password victim uses is the his remote pass as well. and his email pass. so its just 
getting a little trickier thats all.  on the bright side shools are far from discovering
this wonder of technology, as are most offices, however if you think its taking a little
long to connect.. something seems awry.. scan the victim.. look for suspicious returns 
i know portprotectors give back a little something or other.  needless to say
the best way to get caught latching onto someone's data is to dial up from your own
account.. or your own phone line for that matter.. so dont do it.. 

even if they do contact the "HaCKeR AuTHorItiES" what is the worst they could do?

yes officer its true.. i setup 5 of my school computers as mail relays to see how long
it took to send mail all the way back to myself from across the room.. and some crazed
EVYL HAXOR saw what i was doing and starting sending me thousands of messages...

where is thier proof? all circumstantial isnt gonna hold up in court.  which is if they can
even find you.  one packet in a giant city.. who's to say someone didnt hijack your account
and do all these evyl things in your name? this is just a ploy like many others to scare the
hacker community.  YOUR ATTENTION PLEASE ALL MAKERS OF PORTPROTECTION SOFTWARE AND OTHER
MISCELLANEOUS FIREWALL UTILITIES --- FUCK YOU. and that is it.  