                              ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
                            ‹ﬂD i s c o r d a n tﬂ‹
    ‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ€ Opposition  Journal €ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹
   ﬁ€                        ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                        €›
    €       Volume: [ 1]          Month: [ Jan]           File:  [14]     €
   ﬁ€       Issue:  [10]          Year:  [2001]           Total: [20]     €›
    ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€ﬂﬂﬂﬂ€‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ
                ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                         ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ

You've probably hear, or have said, "Back orifice is for lamers" and "Anyone who
uses it has no real skills what so ever".  Well for all intensive purposes those
phrases aren't too far from the truth.  I did however find one use for it that
makes it well worth having on my box.  A few years ago I was having financial
problems and came up with the problem of having to drop my isp because I
couldn't offord it.  Well I was messing around with BO and did a system password
lookup on a remote system that was on an ip string that my current isp owned.

  Well low and behold I ended up grabbing an rna resource for their dialup.  I
saw the password and user name in it and decided "hey, why not try and connect to
my isp using that information."  Bingo....it worked.  I was pleasantly surprised
that I found a way to keep my internet access AND not have to pay for it.  Yeah I
know.. "why not use a free isp?"  well the main reason is, those blasted
avertisements and banners that are always up sucking my bandwidth dry and using
up my resources.

  Well I tried another experiement as well.  I located another local isp in my
area and got a ip listing from them and scanned those.  Once again I came up
with another person infected and grabbed their password list of them.  I tried
connecting again to the new isp and got connected as well.  Other than that nice
little tidbit of information I acquired, I found the program to be worthless.  I
agree totally that Back orifice is just a script kiddie tool and has no real
value, but it does have some usefullness in this world after all.  I would say,
sure go ahead and try it yourself but first check with your isp to find out
their policy on multiple connections on one account.  Because if you screw up
and they nail you or the person who owns the account I'll just laugh at you.

  There is a little background work involved other than just ping away and walk
away happy.  Be smart, cover your back at every turn and always have an exucuse.
As for my personal views on other trojans and "kiddie" tools, stay away from em,
other than a cheap laugh they're more trouble than anything else.  I'll try and
make a few other editorials in the near future but nothing is definite figuring
I'm currently in a child custody case.

		Nexusflame - Cracking security since 1987
			Nexusflame@omniplex.net
		"Nah, I wasn't paying attention"