                              ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
                            ‹ﬂD i s c o r d a n tﬂ‹
    ‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ€ Opposition  Journal €ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹
   ﬁ€                        ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                        €›
    €       Volume: [ 1]          Month: [ Jan]           File:  [12]     €
   ﬁ€       Issue:  [10]          Year:  [2001]           Total: [20]     €›
    ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€ﬂﬂﬂﬂ€‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ
                ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                         ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ

Seattle Was A Riot
==================

Hi there, Im Kleptic. I didn't write this, but I thought it that I
should get as many people as possible to read about what happened in
Seattle. Cause hell... "Seattle Was A Riot" - Anti-Flag.

   Date: Wed, 19 Jan 2000 10:09:30 -0800
   From: Paul Hawken <xxxxxx@xxxx.xxx>

   When I was able to open my eyes, I saw lying next to me a young man,
   19, maybe 20 at the oldest. He was in shock, twitching and shivering
   uncontrollably from being tear-gassed and pepper-sprayed at close
   range. His burned eyes were tightly closed, and he was panting
   irregularly. Then he passed out. He went from excruciating pain to
   unconsciousness on a sidewalk wet from the water that a medic had
   poured over him to flush his eyes.

   More than 700 organizations and between 40,000 and 60,000 people took
   part in the protests against the WTO's Third Ministerial on November
   30th. These groups and citizens sense a cascading loss of human
   and labor rights in the world. Seattle was not the beginning but
   simply the most striking expression of citizens struggling against
   a worldwide corporate-financed oligarchy - in effect, a plutocracy.

   Oligarchy and plutocracy are often are used to describe "other"
   countries where a small group of wealthy people rule, but not the
   "first world" - the United States, Japan, Germany, or Canada. The
   World Trade Organization, however, is trying to cement into place
   that corporate plutocracy. Already, the world's top 200 companies
   have twice the assets of 80 percent of the world's people. Global
   corporations represent a new empire whether they admit it or not.

   With massive amounts of capital at their disposal, any of which can
   be used to influence politicians and the public as and when deemed
   necessary, all democratic institutions are diminished and at risk.
   Corporate free market policies subvert culture, democracy, and community,
   a true tyranny. The American Revolution occurred because of
   crown-chartered corporate abuse, a "remote tyranny" in Thomas
   Jefferson's words. To see Seattle as a singular event, as did most
   of the media, is to look at the battles of Concord and Lexington as
   meaningless skirmishes.

   But the mainstream media, consistently problematic in their coverage
   of any type of protest, had an even more difficult time understanding
   and covering both the issues and activists in Seattle. No charismatic
   leader led. No religious figure engaged in direct action. No
   movie stars starred. There was no alpha group. The Ruckus Society,
   Rainforest Action Network, Global Exchange, and hundreds more were
   there, coordinated primarily by cell phones, emails, and the Direct
   Action Network. They were up against the Seattle Police Department,
   the Secret Service, and the FBI - to say nothing of the media coverage
   and the WTO itself.

   Thomas Friedman, New York Times columnist and author of an elegy to
   globalization entitled The Lexus and the Olive Tree, angrily wrote
   that the demonstrators were "a Noah's ark of flat-earth advocates,
   protectionist trade unions and yuppies looking for their 1960s fix."

   Not so. They were organized, educated, and determined. They were
   human rights activists, labor activists, indigenous people, people
   of faith, steel workers, and farmers. They were forest activists,
   environmentalists, social justice workers, students, and teachers.
   And they wanted the World Trade Organization to listen. They were
   speaking on behalf of a world that has not been made better by
   globalization. Income disparity is growing rapidly. The difference
   between the top and bottom quintiles has doubled in the past 30 years.
   Eighty-six percent of the world's goods go to the top 20 percent,
   the bottom fifth get 1 percent. The apologists for globalization
   cannot support their contention that open borders, reduced tariffs,
   and forced trade benefit the poorest 3 billion people in the world.

   Globalization does, however, create the concentrations of capital
   seen in northern financial and industrial centers - indeed, the wealth
   in Seattle itself. Since the people promoting globalized free trade
   policies live in those cities, it is natural that they should be
   biased. Despite Friedman's invective about "the circus in Seattle,"
   the demonstrators and activists who showed up there were not against
   trade. They do demand proof that shows when and how trade - as the  WTO
   constructs it - benefits workers and the environment in developing
   nations, as well as workers at home. Since that proof has yet to be
   offered, the protesters came to Seattle to hold the WTO accountable.

   On the morning of November 30th, I walked toward the Convention
   Center, the site of the planned Ministerial, with Randy Hayes, the
   founder of Rainforest Action Network. As soon as we turned the corner
   on First Street and Pike Avenue, we could hear drums, chants, sirens,
   roars. At Fifth, police stopped us. We could go no farther without
   credentials. Ahead of us were thousands of protesters. Beyond them
   was a large cordon of gas-masked and riot-shielded police, an armored
   personnel carrier, and fire trucks. On one corner was Niketown. On
   the other, the Sheraton Hotel, through which there was a passage to
   the Convention Center. The cordon of police in front of us tried to
   prevent more protesters from joining those who blocked the entrances
   to the Convention Center. Randy was a credentialed WTO delegate,
   which means he could join the proceedings as an observer. He showed
   his pass to the officer, who thought it looked like me. The officer
   joked with us, kidded Randy about having my credential and then
   winked and let us both through. The police were still relaxed at that
   point. Ahead of us crowds were milling and moving. Anarchists were
   there, maybe 40 in all, dressed in black pants, black bandanas, black
   balaclavas, and jackboots, one of two groups identifiable by costume.

   The other was a group of 300 children who had dressed brightly as
   turtles in the Sierra Club march the day before. The costumes were
   part of a serious complaint against the WTO. When the United States
   attempted to block imports of shrimp caught in the same nets that
   capture and drown 150,000 sea turtles each year, the WTO called the
   block "arbitrary and unjustified". Thus far in every environmental
   dispute that has come before the WTO, its three-judge panels,
   which deliberate in secret, have ruled for business, against the
   environment. The panel members are selected from lawyers and
   officials who are not educated in biology, the environment, social
   issues, or anthropology.                                                            