                              ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
                            ‹ﬂD i s c o r d a n tﬂ‹
    ‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ€ Opposition  Journal €ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹
   ﬁ€                        ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                        €›
    €       Volume: [ 1]          Month: [ Jan]           File:  [11]     €
   ﬁ€       Issue:  [10]          Year:  [2001]           Total: [20]     €›
    ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€ﬂﬂﬂﬂ€‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ
                ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                         ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ

An Old(ish) Australian Phone Phreak
 - fwaggle

<doj note>

this text is somewhat outdated, but it never actually made it into the DoJ,
so i figured i'd include it. however, i can assure you budding australian
phreaks, that this phreak does not work anywhere any more. possibly largely
due to NetNerd's "telstra is lame" website (which actually ranked higher in
many search engines than the actually telstra site) publicizing this any
several other phone phreaks for "SmartPhones", telstra replaced every single
smartphone in australia with a new, updated version.

that's not to say there isn't phreaks out there for them. if i can get in
touch with NetNerd and pheonix, i plan on tracking down some more texts
for the DoJ. :)

</doj note>

Note:
    The author in no way claims responsibility for the discovery
    of this information, or the use/misuse of it. It is intended
    purely for interests sake as a theoretical guide. Ya mum.
    
    Hey peoples. I'm kinda giving away my location a little bit
    here.. Yeah pity me, I'm australian. This phreak is pretty
    old, and it wont work on many of the payphones. Ima write
    this text as more of a techo theory thing rather than just
    explain the phreak. I asked around, and this is what the few
    people who could bother with talking to me all seem to aggree
    on as the theory behind it (Major Greetz to NetNerd).
    
    Also greetz to Pheonix fer helpin me get it working to begin
    with. :P

    Okay. Some background, on the part of the phone that you
    could conceivably exploit and the apparent reasons (so i'm
    told, but the theory behind it seems sound) why it works.

    It seems that for billing purposes, the exchange sends to the
    phone a polar reversal every time the phone is supposed to
    charge you a unit. If the phone doesn't have enough coins in
    it, or enough credit left on the phone card, then this is
    it's cue to hang up on you.
    
    Now to the part of the phone itself that is exploitable. It
    seems that there's apparently two readers in the card slot
    instead of just one. I'm told there is also a magnetic card
    reader over slightly over from the smart-card reader, and
    this is the part that you use.
    
    Simply go to your local Electronics store and stock up on a
    few 1.3KOhm resistors. They're like 3c each or something
    silly so get a few..
    
    Next you must find a version of the payphones that will work.
    The most common way to find out if it's gonna work (next to
    trying it) is to press the Language Support button (from
    memory that's what it's called, with a lil flag on it) and if
    it has no effect then it's probably going to work.
    
    But I've come accross one phone where the Language button has
    no effect and the phreak just would NOT work. (Of course I've
    never practically tested this so I wouldn't know :P). Any
    rate, find a payphone that it'll work on. :)
    
    Now you have to poke one end of your resistor in the card
    reader just under the point of the red arrow. The idea is to
    get it so one end is making good contact with the card reader
    head (I'm told the magnetic reader is the one you are
    "reaching out and touching" and the other end
    grounded to the chassis of the phone.
    
    I've heard of people using tape, or actually fashioning
    "cards" with the resistor permanently in place to
    make this easier. I found it easier to bend the resistor so
    it held itself there. NetNerd told me it seems to work better
    if you put the resistor in from the side, in the little
    thumbhole piece.
    
    It can be done in a matter of seconds. If you haven't done so
    already, pick up the handset of the phone. You should hear a
    buzzing in the background that wasn't audible before. Sorry,
    you can't do anything about this. :)
    
    I've found if you pick up the handset while placing the
    resistor, you have a tendency to get a zap off it. With
    practice you can avoid this though. 
    
    If you hear said buzzing, you would simply dial your number.
    When the person the other end picks up, you'll hear a weird
    electrical buzzing sort of sound that's much louder than the
    background buzz and lasts for like 1 or 2 seconds.
    
    That's the polar reversal. The phone will reset itself,
    thinking it's hung up. But if all's gone well, the resistor
    earthing the card reader will prevent the phone from hanging
    up the line. (Note it also prevents you from hanging up if
    you put the handset up without removing the resistor.
    Remember this if pranking, kay? :P)
    
    Now, the phone will still be connected, but it will have
    reset and disabled the microphone (my guess is this would be
    to stop any kind of Red Box or Tone Dialler related attacks).
    The final trick is to enable the microphone.
    
    By law all australian payphones must provide access to the
    000 emergency number for free. Obviously this is for
    emergencies. So you dial 000. Because you're not at the
    dial-tone, you wont get 000 but the so-called
    "Smart-Phone" doesn't know that. It activates the
    microphone, and even prints "Free Call" on the
    screen for you. 
    
    Next billing unit, you will again hear the polar reversal and
    in most cases you'll find it's reset the phone and disabled
    the microphone on you. Simply dial 000 again to reactivate
    it, or as NetNerd pointed out, while connected the * key acts
    as a kind of Re-Dial function, making the task even easier.
    
    So what have we learnt today? Well Netnerd tells me the whole
    problem is because Telstra contracted foreign companies to
    build our payphones instead of using the Australian ones. I
    haven't figured out the link yet.. Maybe foreign countries
    underestimated the resourcefulness of Australian Phreaks...
    Hehehe..
    
    Whatever, Like I said to begin with, this text in no way
    condones fraudulent use of payphones. Chances are some day
    everyone that's making use of this or some other phreak
    technique will go down in some huge sting or something, so
    before you try out the Theory in the text, think if you
    really want to be a part of it or not.
    
    Well.. I'm out... If you're in Aus and really must email me,
    I'm including my contact info... But I'm broke, so I dont do
    conferences at the mo :)
    
    fwaggle '99
