                              ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
                            ‹ﬂD i s c o r d a n tﬂ‹
    ‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ€ Opposition  Journal €ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ‹
   ﬁ€                        ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                        €›
    €       Volume: [ 1]          Month: [ Jan]           File:  [10]     €
   ﬁ€       Issue:  [10]          Year:  [2001]           Total: [20]     €›
    ﬂ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€ﬂﬂﬂﬂ€‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹           ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬂ
                ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ                         ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ


What follows is an excerpt from my unfinished, unpublished labor of hate
that I have been working on for the better part of five years now. 
Readers should be aware of this fact and you might want to include this
paragraph.  I am not telling you if this is fiction or not, because part
of what the book is about is perceptions.  I let the reader form their
own.

The book is currently called Perceptions in Failure.

Chapter Five: Laura

I was the scum of the earth.  I was a drug dealer.  I don't mean a guy
with a few grams of pot, and maybe some acid.  I dealt narcotic bliss. 
Hard stuff like coke and heroin.  It was not, in retrospect, the most
fulfilling time of my life.  I was also a criminal, a small time car
thief.  I was fifteen and hanging around with some guys in their late
twenties, early thirties.  Most of them had spent more time In prison
then I had in school.  I don't even really remember how the hell I
hooked up with these guys.  All I know it was the drugs.  Imagine, a pot
head at age 12.  Sure I thought it was great, drugs, money, sex, cars. 
Buy the time I was 15 I had been in more fights and run from more cops
than I can count.  By all rights I should be dead, or in jail.  None of
that, however; is the point.
  
        I was scum, but I was also in love.  I was with this girl, Laura.  I
would do anything for her.  It was typical teenager shit.  On again, off
again for the fist bit, but then as the drugs we were doing got harder,
and the crowd of our friends got meaner and older  we grew together.  I
was totally in love.  On January 28 of that year I killed her.

        It was not premeditated murder, it was manslaughter.  Some even say it
wasn't my fault.  But it was.  I killed her.  She had what H addicts
call a hotspot.  It is a hit of heroin that is way to much for their
system.  Some times it sends you into shock.  Sometimes you die.  Laura
died.
        We were at a party.  Lots of drugs, lots of underage kids.  I was not
the only dealer there.  I was staying straight that night, meaning that
I was only doing soft drugs like pot.  I had just come down off a bad
acid trip the week before and was trying to let my body recover.  Laura
was a junkie.  She needed H.

        I cooked up the needle for her and handed it to her.  We were all
kneeling down in a circle, and when she was ready she put the needle in
her arm.  Her eyes closed, and she smiled just for a second.  Then she
got a look of horror on her face like I have never seen in a human being
before, and fell over onto her face, dead.

        Needless to say I freaked.  From what I could tell her heart stopped. 
She had no pulse.   I don't know how long we waited before someone
called an ambulance, and we took her down stairs.  The paramedics tries
to revive her, first by giving her a shot of something, adrenaline I
guess.  At the hospital they tried the shock paddle thing, I think, I
wasn't able to go in.  I told the nurse everything I knew about her,
where she lived, who her social worker at the group home was and the
phone number.  I waited buy her side, and I had to answer to cops.  The
track marks on her arms were obvious, so I didn't lie about the drugs. 
I did not however volunteer the information about the party or the
source of the drugs.  My usual luck with the authorities held out, and I
wasn't questioned that badly.  When Jenny, the social worker, arrived
the Doctor came out and told us that she was dead.

        I killed Laura, over ten years ago,  and that's where my series of
disappearances began.

Old Scratch