

	"Those not busy being born are busy dying"
The Anarchives 				Volume 2 Issue 23
	The Anarchives			Published By
		The Anarchives		The Anarchy Organization
			The Anarchives	tao@lglobal.com

		Send your e-mail address to get on the list
		Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--			The
             /  /  \  \			Central Nervous
         ---|--/----\--|---		System
             \/      \/			
             /\______/\			by Jesse Hirsh


-~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~

"Northern Telecom was born and reared in the midst of revolution.... 
...After 100 years of innovation, the telecommunications industry has 
achieved its potential as an enabler, energizer, and liberating force. 
Today, it's an industry at the hub of the political, economic, and social 
structure of global society, propelling momentous change."1

These are the words of the man who leads one of the largest companies in 
the world. He speaks of his corporation as a vanguard force, rallying 
support and investment for the revolution.

"Networks - wireless, enterprise, switching, and broadband - are the 
foundation of our future."2

Northern Telecom, a subsidiary of Bell Canada Enterprises, boasts of 
possesing paradigm technology. As their stock, traded globally, continues 
to skyrocket, they continue to build the frontier of the information 
revolution.

"The latest cycles began in the years following the Second World War, 
when the telecommunications industry spearheaded research that brought 
such key advances as the transistor and the laser. Over the last forty 
years, the computer industry has ridden the transistor to dominance in 
the information economy. New laser-based breakthroughs in fiber optics, 
however, now promise to turn the tide again toward telephony. While the 
computer will still be king, the network will be computer."3

The metaphor of the network becomes a symbol of change, a new symbol of 
order and organization. This paper will analyze the network, as media, as 
technology, as mind, and as an embodiment of political change. Following 
Marshall McLuhan's idea of 'the medium as the message', the message of 
the network will be examined, and as a result, a startling structure of 
power and control is revealed. This paper draws upon a myriad of thinkers 
in depicting technological change that is also political empowerment. The 
relationship between propaganda and technology reveals a relationship 
between institutions and elites. In examining the technology of networks, 
propaganda becomes a part of the ground, defining reality in a media 
environment.

"Over the next decade, digital networks will provide a new central 
nervous system for the world economy. Transformed by convergence and 
computerization, TV will burst forth in a new flowering of choice and 
empowerment."4

These quotes from Monty and Gilder are from an obvious piece of 
propaganda distributed by Northern Telecom to technology writers. In 
examining propaganda its important to go right to the horses mouth to 
hear what the official 'words' are. Gilder has been able to not only 
equate king with computer, computer with network, but also network with 
central nervous system. So will the central nervous system be king? 
Certainly the brain plays a predominant role in a future of media that 
are extensions of the psyche: virtual reality, networked intelligence, 
artificial intelligence.

"As man succeeds in translating his central nervous system into 
electronic circuitry, he stands on the threshold of outering his 
consciousness into the computer."5

As an extension of the brain, computers begin to 'process information' 
much the same way the brain did, often in place of human brains. As 
computers become networked, they handle many media and take on diverse 
and dynamic roles, in essence duplicating the human-neurological system. 
Mundane human tasks can be accomplished by machines, freeing up humans 
for other things. At least this is the rationale behind the technological 
drive of automation. What does not get taken into account however, is the 
cost of externalizing one's central nervous system. For example, what 
role does the central nervous system play within our biological order.

"Physiologically, the central nervous system, that electric network that 
co-ordinates the various media of our sense, plays the chief role. 
Whatever threatens its function must be contained, localized, or cut off, 
even to the total removal of the offending organ. The function of the 
body, as a group of sustaining and protective organs for the central 
nervous system, is to act as buffers against sudden variations of 
stimulus in the physical and social environment. Sudden social failure or 
shame is a shock that some may 'take to heart' or that may cause muscular 
disturbance in general, signalling for the person to withdraw from the 
threatening situation."6

Our central nervous systems control the institution, or even leviathan, 
that is our person. Our bodies function according to certain criteria, 
determined and evaluated by our brain. We act and react according to 
balances of chemicals within our heads. When our conscious and 
unconscious exist externally, our decision-making processes are also 
externalized. The need and relevance of democracy ensures our co-habitation.

"The principle of numbness comes into play with electric technology, as 
with any other. We have to numb our central nervous system when it is 
extended and exposed, or we will die. Thus the age of anxiety and of 
electric media is also the age of the unconscious and of apathy."7

Political organization has always operated according to the politics of 
exclusion and the preservation of special interests. Modern democracy is 
a distorted mirror of elite theatre.

"Putting it in plain terms, the general public must be reduced to its 
traditional apathy and obedience, and driven from the arena of political 
debate and action, if democracy is to survive."8

Democracy, as a political form of mass indoctrination coupled with elite 
domination, serves as a theatrical and systemic function, diverting 
attention from real technical power.

"Not only is propaganda itself a technique, it is also an indispensable 
condition for the development of technical progress and the establishment 
of a technological civilization."9

The technological change hurtles forth on the wings of profit, progress, 
and utopia. A whole society submersed in a total media environment become 
obsessed with the benefits of technological change. With the outering of 
the conscious, the externalization of the central nervous system, we see 
ourselves in everything.

"The Greek myth of Narcissus is directly concerned with a fact of human 
experience, as the word Narcissus indicates. It is from the Greek word 
narcosis, or numbness. The youth Narcissus mistook his own reflection in 
the water for another person. This extension of himself by mirror numbed 
his perceptions until he became the servomechanism of his own extended or 
repeated image."10

Instead of closing our eyes at night to dream of our collective 
unconscious, we now walk the street in perpetual day, our sexual desires 
posted on factory walls. We our surrounded by images of ourselves, 
telling us that consumption will solve our shortcomings, and Coca-Cola 
will save the planet.

"In short, the major media - particularly, the elite media that set the 
agenda that others generally follow - are corporations 'selling' 
privileged audiences to other businesses. It would hardly come as a 
surprise if the picture of the world they present were to reflect the 
perspectives and interests of the sellers, the buyers, and the product. 
Concentration of ownership of the media is high and increasing. 
Furthermore, those who occupy managerial positions in the media, or gain 
status within them as commentators, belong to the same privileged elites, 
and might be expected to share the perceptions their way unless they 
conform to these ideological pressures, generally by internalizing the 
values; it is not easy to say one thing and believe another, and those 
who fail to conform will tend to be weeded out by familiar mechanisms."11
Consumer loyalties characterize the tribes of the global village. In the 
information age we are categorized according to purchasing patterns.
What was promised as an empowerment of choice, becomes the loss of voice, 
and hence monotony of choice. The black market becomes a competing reality.
"Case by case, we find that conformity is the easy way, and the path to 
privilege and prestige; dissidence carries personal costs that may be 
severe, even in a society that lacks such means of control as death 
squads, psychiatric prisons, or extermination camps."12

As the Information revolution continues to accelerate, the degree to 
which all humans live in the total media environment increases 
exponentially. Greater amounts of human communication become mediated by 
electronic media. Communications defines the structure of the empire as 
the information is staple. The role of propaganda within a technological 
regime becomes paramount as the technological change is equated with 
social advancement.

"Propaganda is called upon to solve problems created by technology, to 
play on maladjustments, and to integrate the individual into a 
technological world. Propaganda is a good deal less the political weapon 
of a regime (it is that also) than the effect of a technological society 
that embraces the entire man and tends to be a completely integrated 
society."13

Propaganda and technology work hand in hand fortifying a communications 
empire that maintains a techno-political elite.

"Thus all modern propaganda profits from the structure of the mass, but 
exploits the individual's need for self-affirmation; and the two actions 
must be conducted jointly, simultaneously. Of course this operation is 
greatly facilitated by the existence of modern mass media of 
communication , which have precisely this remarkable effect of reaching 
the whole crowd all at once, and yet reaching each one in that crowd. 
Readers of the evening paper, radio listeners, movie or TV viewers 
certainly constitute a mass that has an organic existence, although it is 
diffused and not assembled at one point. These individuals are moved by 
the same motives, receive the same impulses and impressions, find 
themselves focused on the same centres of interest, experience the same 
feelings, have generally the same order of reactions and ideas, 
participate in the same myths- and all this at the same time: what we 
have here is really a psychological, if not a biological mass."14

The current media environment is an arena of transformation, as a 
collective conscious is constructed by various industries of information.

"Literal censorship barely exists in the United States, but thought 
control is a flourishing industry, indeed an indispensable one in a 
society based on the principle of elite decision, public endorsement or 
passivity."15

Contemporary agents of social control are saturated into the 
institutional framework of the current regime. The empire of 
communications supports all extensions of the empire, enabling global 
exploitation with a paid-up phone bill.

"Especially significant is the fact that the 'information' paradigm 
belongs to a certain kind of political economy; a paradigm which for all 
its democratic 'user friendly,' 'people oriented' wrappings has nothing 
to do with either democracy or users, but rather with very powerful 
economic and political institutions which are becoming ever more powerful 
ever more undemocratic while making us believe the opposite." 16

While public institutions are slashed out of existence, and unemployment 
skyrockets, communication and financial corporations report record 
profits. The most obvious example is American Telephone & Telegraph, who 
with billions in profits and stock prices soaring, recently announced a 
massive 'restructuring' in the interests of international competition.

"AT&T Corp.'s massive cutbacks mark the start of an era of unprecedented 
upheaval in telecommunications - a time of thousands of layoffs, furious 
competition and a likely frenzy of mergers and alliances."17

Yet in the face of this dramatic centralization and empowerment of an 
even smaller elite, arguments of decentralization abound. Corporate 
soothsayers praise the name of McLuhan, citing the 'media messiah' as the 
purveyor of decentralization.

"Electricity does not centralize, but decentralizes."18
For all the things McLuhan had to contribute towards our understanding of 
media, it's ironic that decentralization continues to be emphasized by 
contemporaries.

"Catholic humanism allowed him to subordinate and forget the question of 
the private appropriation of technology. And what was, in the final 
instance, tragic and not comic about his intellectual fate was simply 
this: it was precisely the control over the speed, dissemination, and 
implanting of new technologies by the corporate commands centres of North 
America which would subvert the very possibility of an age of creative 
freedom."19

It is the decentralization of electricity that is the narcissistic trance 
that hypnotizes the user to ignore the centralization of capital. Harold 
Innis accurately addresses the centralizing and decentralizing effects of 
media:

"Concentration on a medium of communication implies a bias in the 
cultural development of the civilization concerned either towards an 
emphasis on space and political organization or towards an emphasis on 
time and religious organization. Introduction of a second medium tends to 
check the bias of the first and to create conditions suited to the growth 
of empire."20

Multi-media inherently fulfil the balance of biases described by Innis. 
The new media of electronic delivery enable the decentralized 
accessibility of the information, but the reliance on old media such as 
the printed word and visual content of television enforce traditional 
reliance on an authority. Centralized ownership of the media ensure that 
although proliferation of media may be decentralized, the content of the 
media will remain dependent upon authoritative sources.

"One important characteristic of the information age is its 
non-hierarchical constitution of power. The old pyramid hiearchy has been 
replaced with a kind of capillary power which is even more insidious than 
that of the King or dictator, precisely because it operates at the more 
abstract level of electronics and computers. The new move towards 
non-hierarchical management is a product of information age power. Yet 
human beings have never been so controlled, so manipulated, as they are 
now."21

As responsible government is dismantled due to financial considerations, 
authority shifts to the ethereal state of corporate consciousness. What 
was once the public sphere, or the public conscious, has now been 
privatized. The 'private' sector, the 'private' mind becomes the main 
decision making body. The methods of control described in this paper are 
used to maintain elite domination, previously public and national, now 
increasingly private and international.

"Briefly, the American upper class became national in scope in the last 
half of the nineteenth century, coinciding with the rise of the national 
corporate economy which was its economic base and the national 
transportation-communication network which made its cohesiveness possible."22

With the laying of the global information infrastructure, the national 
elite abandons its traditional institutions to jockey for positions among 
the emerging global elite.

"'The growth of the Executive branch of the government, with its agencies 
that patrol the complex economy, does note mean merely the 'enlargement 
of government' as some sort of autonomous bureaucracy: it has meant the 
ascendancy of the corporation's man as a political eminence.'"23

The philosophy of corporate organization has become imbedded within the 
Information Revolution, we witness the maturation of corporate 
governance. Nation states have been supplanted by the international 
corporate state. The corporate state is founded upon military 
organization, subsidized by military expansion, and supported by military 
order.

The military order itself has been privatized and incorporated into the 
corporate order. All as a process of technological change initiated by 
Information technology. The geographic allocation of the military is no 
longer necessary in the global village when any military force can be 
deployed anywhere, real, virtual, or nuclear.

The C.E.O. of a large conglomerate is a four star general of industry, 
and generals from the military sit on the board. The military-industrial 
complex was a metaphor for the marriage of military and corporate 
organization.

Now we witness the military-industrial-biological, a metaphor for the 
union of human and machine.

"In McLuhan's estimation, "technology is part of our bodies"; and to the 
extent that corporations acquire private control over the electronic 
media then we have, in effect, 'leased out' our eyes, ears, fingers, 
legs, and the brain itself to an exterior power. In the electronic age, 
this era of collective and integral consciousness, those with control of 
technological media are allowed 'to play the strings of our nerves in 
public'. The body is fully externalized, and exposed, in the interstices 
of the technological sensorium."24

As we all become information, subject to analysis on information 
networks, we sacrifice what little autonomy our literate culture afforded 
us. The power that resides within computerized information networks is 
alarming, and arguably uncomprehendable. Certainly, in light of the 
evidence presented in this paper, the beneficiaries of the current 
technological change are not 'we the people'.

In fact the most alarming conclusion is that people will not be the end 
beneficiaries at all. Technology has accelerated past the efforts of 
humanity and has appropriated our autonomy for its own.

"Neural networks are essentially statistical devices for inductive 
inference. Their strengths (and weaknesses) accrue from the fact that 
they need no a prior assumptions of models and from their capability to 
infer non-linear underlying relationships."25

In layterms, neural networks can take incredible amounts of input, such 
as global market data, or the globe itself reduced to data, then from 
this amass of input, decipher and identify patterns, take action in the 
face of such recognition, and learn from its own actions. Modelled after 
the human brain, neural networks are based upon analogue technology 
instead of digital, measuring rates of exchange rather than the content 
of the information, combining pattern recognition with system memory. A 
neural network, acting as a central nervous system, can be connected to a 
global information network, and the information network will be absorbed 
into the decision making properties of the neural network. Thus the 
flourishing industries of thought control, as described by Chomsky, can 
be co-ordinated by one grand machine.

In the face of such a dystopic vision of the future, the reader and 
likewise the author, are left with a bleak sense of futility. Yet it is 
important to remember that it is always darkest before the dawn. History 
itself is built upon elite domination of political, social, and economic 
society. What sets the present apart from the past, certainly the recent 
past, is the knowledge of existing political relations.

 "Prediction and control consist in avoiding this subliminal state of 
Narcissus trance. But the greatest aid to this end is simply in knowing 
that the spell can occur immediately upon contact, as in the first bars 
of a melody."26

Resisting a technological regime that is based upon the domination of the 
psyche is indeed a difficult task. The current technological change is at 
both political and religious, fulfilling the balancing properties 
described by Innis. Resistance and revolution must begin by addressing 
the essence of the current regime, that being the focus on technology itself.

In resisting the automation of our bodies, and the machination of our 
souls, humanity must shift the unconscious emphasis on technology, to a 
collective emphasis on ecology.

This shift must be in a cultural, political, economic, and social manner, 
re-examining the basic assumptions of our human relations. As the medium 
is the message we must examine ourselves as media, in an effort to 
determine our own messages. What will then occur is a mass healing and a 
mass therapy of coming to grips with a culture that has been removed from 
awareness by runaway technology.

With awareness of the present, maybe we can hack ourselves a future, 
outside of the technological paradigm that consumes all within the 
metamorphosis of its change.

Notes:

1 John C. Monty, CEO Northern Telecom, from: World Of Networks; Northern 
Telecom 1995 (Corporate Communications Department)

2 John C. Monty

3 George Gilder, From Nortel, World Of Networks

4 George Gilder, NorTel

5 McLuhan, Marshall & Powers, Bruce; The Global Village; Oxford 
University Press, New York 1989, pp. 94

6 McLuhan, Marshall, Understanding Media, Oxford University, 1964 New 
York, pp. 43

7  McLuhan, Understanding Media, pp. 47

8 Noam Chomsky, Necessary Illusions, Anansi House, 1991, Toronto, pp. 3

9 Jacques Ellul, Propaganda,  Alfred A Knopf, New York, 1961 pp. x

10 McLuhan, Understanding Media, pp. 41]

11 Chomsky, Neccesary Illusions, pp. 7

12 Chomsky, Neccessary Illusions, pp. 10

13 Ellul, Propaganda, pp. xvii

14 Ellul, Propaganda, pp. 8

15 Noam Chomsky, Pirates And Emperors, pp. 42

16 Rolando Perez, The Ideology of Information, Stranger Books, NYC 1994 
pp. 10

17 from Wall Street Journal, Jan 4 1996 <no page #>

18 McLuhan, Understanding Media, pp. 36

19 Arthur Kroker, The Canadian Mind, pp. 82

20 H.A. Innis, Empire And Communications, University Of Toronto Press, 
1951 pp. 170

21 Perez, Ideology Of Information, pp. 10

22 Domhoff, Who Rules America, pp. 12

23 Jacques Ellul, Propaganda, pp. 114

24 Kroker, The Canadian Mind, pp. 79

25 Apostolos-Paul Refenes (ed); Neural Networks In The Capital Markets, 
John Wiley & Sons, Toronto 1995, pp. 14

26 McLuhan, Understanding Media, pp. 15


	http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
         ___         ___            ___
        /  /\       /  /\          /  /\
       /  /:/      /  /::\        /  /::\
     /  /:/       /  /:/\:\      /  /:/\:\
    /  /::\      /  /:/ /::\    /  /:/  \:\   
   /__/:/\:\    /__/:/ /:/\:\  /__/:/ \__\:\     
   \__\/  \:\   \  \:\/:/__\/  \  \:\ /  /:/ 
        \  \:\   \  \::/        \  \:\  /:/
         \  \:\   \  \:\         \  \:\/:/
          \  \:\   \  \:\         \  \::/
	   \__\/    \__\/          \__\/

--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majordomo@lglobal.com with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
			Also check out:
		http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
