
		   "Language Is A Virus"
The Anarchives 				Volume 2 Issue 20
	The Anarchives			Published By
		The Anarchives		The Anarchy Organization
			The Anarchives	tao@lglobal.com

		Send your e-mail address to get on the list
		Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--			PLATEAUS OF CONSUMPTION
             /  /  \  \			
         ---|--/----\--|---		The Biosemiotics of
             \/      \/			Consumer Fascism
             /\______/\			by Mark Burch
					burch@hawaii.edu

-~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~

PLATEAUS OF CONSUMPTION
The Biosemiotics of Consumer Fascism
Copylefted 1995 Mark Burch--incorporate these ideas into your lifestyle 
only as long as they stimulate you to higher levels of liberation

	"You think you'd rather hear about what you call 'life:'  the 
growing organic Kartell.  But it's only another illusion.  A very clever 
robot.  The more dynamic it seems to you, the more deep and dead, in 
reality, it grows.  Look at the smokestacks, how they proliferate, 
fanning the wastes of original waste over greater and greater masses of 
city... Death converted into more death.  Perfecting its reign, just as 
the buried coal grows denser and overlaid with more strata--epoch on top 
of epoch, city of top of ruined city.  This is the sign of Death the 
impersonator."
	"These signs are real.  They are also the symptoms of a process.  
The process follows the same form, the same structure.  To apprehend it 
you will follow the signs.  All talk of cause and effect is secular 
history, and secular history is a diversionary tactic...If you want the 
truth...you must look into the technology of these matters."
	"You must ask two questions:  First, what is the real nature of 
synthesis?  And then:  What is the real nature of control?"

			--Thomas Pynchon, Gravity's Rainbow

A naked lunch is natural to us
We eat reality sandwiches.
But allegories are so much lettuce
Don't hide the madness.

--Allen Ginsberg



INTRODUCTION:  THE MENU

	This paper is a biosemiotic approach to understanding the last 
500 years of global human relations in what is characterized as 
imperialism, colonialism, capitalism, and consumerism.  These terms 
describe geometric and functional relations in a biosemiotic web that is 
coextensive with the biosphere of earth.  Instead of considering food as 
culture, I invert the relation and consider culture as food.  That is to 
say, the structure of much of our social relations and political economy 
is given by consumption.  It's a dog eat dog world out there.  Autonomous 
beings such as selves and cultures are digested and absorbed by precise 
mechanisms.  Transnational capital (TNC) manufactures a culture of 
consumption in which its products go beyond extraneous commodities to 
being indispensable parts of our material culture.  The strategies by 
which this is accomplished, such as commodity fetishism, are intriguing 
and in themselves reveal much about the interactions between cognition, 
culture, and physiology.  The crux of my argument is that the consumer 
culture contains within it an oncomeme--a meme which causes proliferation 
of itself in much the same way that a oncovirus reproduces itself by 
taking over the communication processes of a cell and causing the cell to 
proliferate.  This toxic culture devours the creamy semiotic filling of 
selves and cultures and leaves behind a hollow materialist shell which 
must consume in order to survive, to fill the void within. 	

APPETIZER:  THE BIOSEMIOTIC PARADIGM

	There are two types of relatedness in the organization of 
systems: autonomy and allonomy (Varela, 1979).  Autonomy means self-law 
or self-government and represents generation, internal regulation, 
assertion of one's identity, definition from the inside out.  Allonomy is 
synonymous with control, and represents consumption, input and output, 
assertion of the identity of other, definition from the outside in.  
Living systems can be understood as a nested hierarchy of autonomous 
systems, e. g., Margulis' theory of endosymbiotic evolution (Margulis, 
1970).  If one steps outside the usual anthropocentric definition of 
aliveness, one can see that there is a continuum of autonomous living 
systems from atoms, molecules, cells, organisms, and ecosystems to 
planets and solar systems.  This is not a mystical or animistic belief; 
rather, for the sake of logical consistency, it is valuable to observe 
the homology between cellular metabolisms such as the citric acid cycle 
and nuclear metabolisms such as the Bethe cycle of hydrogen and helium in 
the sun (Jantsch, 1980).  The homology between these metabolisms lies in 
the circularity of the connectedness of their elements.  They are based 
on a circular logic of

			A implies B
			B implies C
	therefore	C implies A.

This is distinguished from Aristotelian logic:

			A implies B
			B implies C
	therefore	A implies C.

As will be seen later, Aristotelian logic is consistent with allonomous 
control, in which there is a one-way flow of information (instruction) 
vs. a two-way flow between elements of an autonomous system (conversation).

	The flow of matter in an allonomous system is linear: 
input/process/output.  The flow of matter in autonomous systems is 
circular.  One compelling symbol for autonomy is a snake eating its tail 
(Varela, 1979).  This symbol incorporates not only circularity and 
self-reflexivity, it is an act of self-consumption.  In cybernetics, it 
is called feedback regulation; I suspect the consumptive metaphor is not 
accidental.  Thus consumption underlies both autonomy and control.  The 
difference lies in the underlying motivation.  In autonomous systems, 
consumption serves as interrelatedness and communication.  In allonomous 
systems, the motive for consumption is coercion, manipulation, and 
exploitation.

	Autonomy does not imply solipsism.  In the nested hierarchy of 
autonomous systems, called the holarchy by Koestler (1978), there is both 
analog and digital communication between the parts of a system and 
between subsystems.  Within the system, communication is via analog 
signals (waves), for example glycolytic oscillations or frequency-coded 
calcium waves.  Systems and subsystems are of different logical types and 
communicate digitally with levels above and below through the mediation 
of signs and symbols.  Cell surface receptors can be looked at as digital 
to analog converters.  On another level, a drum can also be looked on as 
a digital to analog converter.  This feature explains why it is used in 
rituals involving category change (Knauft, 1979). 

	This is the paradigm of biosemiotics (Eder and Rembold, 1992; 
Sebeok, 1976)--that biology, on all levels from genes to ecosystems, can 
be viewed as communication, and biological processes are sign-mediated 
interactions.  This approach is being used because of the 
interpenetration of the symbolic and material aspects of food, cuisine, 
and consumption.  The title of this paper, "Plateaus of Consumption," 
refers to the different levels of analysis of the phenomenon of 
consumption from the material to the symbolic, and also refers to Deleuze 
and Guattari's A Thousand Plateaus (1987), the second volume of their 
compendium, Capitalism and Schizophrenia.  The plateaus of consumption 
that I will consider include the consumption of food, commodities, 
identities, selves, cultures, and nations.

APERITIF:  THE BIOSEMIOTIC SELF
	The semioticist C. S. Peirce believed that the locus of the self 
was not inside the organism, but rather was to be found in its relations 
with others (Singer, 1984).  Cohen (1977) proposes that selfhood is the 
unity, the sheer oneness of a person.  Selfhood is achieved and 
maintained when one interacts with others with the totality of one's 
being.  In the performance of a specialized, contractual role, the self 
is least involved.  Maximum involvement of the self is through 
non-contractual, non-utilitarian non-rational roles, and the patterns of 
symbolic activities associated with these roles.  The contractual element 
is subversive of selfhood, but in the symbolic act, we continually create 
and re-create our selfhood.  Napier (1992) completes the picture by 
identifying the integrity of the self with its social 
immunity--self-defense or the ability to avoid soul loss--and connecting 
this to its immunological immunity.  Thus he observes that marginalized 
groups such as left-handers and homosexuals tend to suffer more from 
immune system disorders.

	In the biosemiotic view of selfhood, the self system is a unity 
of experiential and symbolic relations between a person and the organisms 
and objects in their environment.  The people in a culture relate their 
experience to each through symbols which are based on animals and plants 
in their immediate environment.  Their body is constructed of food which 
is grown or captured locally, made ultimately of the elements of the soil 
upon which they live.  Their houses are constructed by them of locally 
available materials.  Their education is relevant to their survival, both 
immediate and long-term as a people, and is related in stories which 
involve local organisms, events and landmarks.  Their medicine uses 
locally available plants.  This totality of interrelationships of 
production, consumption, and symbolization creates the biosemiotic self 
system.  It is an adaptive intelligence which asymptotically approaches 
wisdom.  It is autonomous and autochthonous, rooted in both immanent 
ecology and transcendent mystery, in which autonomous selves have lots of 
room to grow toward self-realization.

	The biosemiotic concept of self is consistent with Dow's systems 
model with its hierarchy of ecological, social, self, somatic, and 
molecular systems (Dow, 1986).  He used this model to analyze symbolic 
healing as a transduction of emotional communication (the link between 
self and somatic systems) and transactional symbols ( the self/societal 
link) (Burch, 1992).

FIRST COURSE:  FOOD AS FOOD
	The first plateau of consumption is the consumption of food for 
nutritional purposes.  Even this mundane process is highly charged.  
Going without food for even one day is very stressful, and most of the 
activities of our lives are directly or indirectly concerned with 
obtaining food.  On the other hand, being consumed is the stuff of which 
horror films are made.  Because of the importance of consumption to our 
psyche, it is one of the major underlying structures of our behavior.  
And yet, because of its highly charged nature, it may be one of the most 
denied.

	Eating for the sake of nutrition is controlled by 
psychobiological mechanisms through brain centers located in the 
hypothalamus (Pinel, 1990).  For example, lesioning of the ventromedial 
hypothalamus (VMH) in rats produces hyperphagia and obesity.  Lesioning 
of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) produces aphagia. The dual center set 
point model says that the VMH regulates satiety and the LH regulates 
hunger.  There are dual set points of blood glucose and body fat which 
govern the motivations to consume certain foods.  This balance can be 
upset by interference from the cognitive cortex.  The point is that 
nutritional consumption is feedback-regulated; symbolic consumption is 
not necessarily so regulated.

SECOND COURSE:  FOOD AS SYMBOL
	Food constructs not only the physical body, it also constructs 
the self through its symbolism and social meanings (Weismantel,1988).  
Food is a material substance, and it is also a symbol and a sign, with a 
multitude of private, social, and cultural meanings.  The act of cooking 
transforms the food, but also the people involved, and lies at the 
intersection between the conceptual and material aspects of  social 
life.  In cooking, there is continual movement between a concept and its 
realization, between text and context, and between production and 
consumption (Weismantel, 1988).  In biology, the form of symbiosis in 
which guest and host both benefit is called commensalism, which means to 
eat at the same table; with humans, commensalism is also a semiosis, a 
shared meaning.

THIRD COURSE:  CUISINE AS MEANING
	Levi-Strauss, in The Raw and the Cooked (1964), analyzed myth in 
terms of polarities such as raw/cooked, fresh/decayed, etc.  What is more 
interesting for me is his observation that the process of cooking serves 
not only to make food more digestible, but also socializes it.  Most 
people do not usually consume food in its raw state.  There are dozens of 
processes employed to make food more acceptable to the human palate, and 
each one moves the food from wild matter to tame symbol.  The function of 
these processes and utensils such as fork and spoon is to mediate the 
interaction between the raw food and the human consumer.  Levi-Strauss 
believed that the two poles of human subject and physical world must be 
insulated from each other to prevent a short circuit.

	Another way to look at this mediation is that it increases the 
control over the raw matter.  This is one example of mediated experience, 
which is widespread in human culture, and proliferates geometrically, as 
intermediaries are intercalated between intermediaries.  Neuronal 
processing takes sensory data and converts it into perceptual 
interpretations.  By a process of self-amputation (McLuhan, 1964), in 
which elements of our physiology are projected outward and become part of 
our culture, the media take over this processing and predigest our news 
for us.  For a really bland diet, try Reader's Digest.  We autonomous 
beings prefer reality sandwiches, and a well-known anarchist rag in the 
Bay Area is called Processed World in protest.  In our everyday lives, we 
are constantly categorizing, pigeonholing, interpreting people, things 
and events in our lives.  The raw chaos of life is washed, pounded, 
dried, cooked and served up as the cuisine of meaning.

	Other examples of mediation are the vast bureaucracies interposed 
between peasant and king, citizen and president, worshipper and god.  A 
direct link between transpersonal psychology and politics can be found 
here.  A mystic is one who desires a direct experience of God not 
mediated by a priest.  An anarchist is one who desires a direct 
experience of governance not mediated by representatives.  Hakim Bey, an 
ontological anarchist, has invented a philosophy called immediatism in 
recognition of this desire for unmediated or immediate experience.  The 
problem of course is that intermediaries have their own agendas and needs 
which may be in conflict with the needs of those being mediated.   In our 
representative democracy, it is important to ask whom is being 
represented. 

	There is a principle operating here: objectification precedes 
consumption.  It makes us queasy to think of munching on a still warm, 
twitching animal, so we must objectify it first, turn it into a symbol.  
Symbols are another form of mediation (Singer, 1984), but they seem to 
have a dual ability to inform or to control.  Deleuze and Guattari (1987) 
note that the scientific process translates the flows, particles, and 
codes of the natural world into symbols, a process they call 
reterritorialization.  Control over the flows is gained, but information 
is lost--the map is not the territory.  The symbols must be organized 
with a specific logic, the logic of discourse, but that logic is 
projected back onto the flows as if were inherent there.  As Bateson 
(1979) has shown, deductive logic, the logic of discourse, does not model 
causality accurately.  The chains of causality in the natural world are 
circular, not linear.  

	Before a piece of raw reality can be consumed, it must be 
controlled by objectification.  Another example of this is the way in 
which women are consumed in our culture; they are objectified by being 
turned into a photographic image, or packaged in a pleasing way.  The 
original meaning of "cute" is "cooked," from the French "cuit", and 
referred to sugar that had been processed (Mintz, 1985).  Terms of 
endearment often involve gustatory metaphors:  "sugar," "honey," 
"sweetcakes."  Love may leave a sweet taste in your mouth, but sexual 
obsession is about devouring someone's identity, which is what is being 
artistically portrayed in vampire movies.  That consumption is really the 
agenda is revealed in the porno movie when the male walks up to the 
female and says, "You look good enough to eat."  

	Science, with its emphasis on detached observation, is really 
voyeurism ("I like to watch").  In Euripides' The Bacchae, Pentheus, the 
first observer, was torn apart and consumed by the Maenads when they 
caught him spying on their ritual.  The punishment fit the crime, for 
observation is consumption.  True ritual is totally participatory; there 
can be no observers (George, 1988).  Thus the Balinese had to invent the 
Monkey Chant as a decoy to keep the tourists away from their real 
rituals.  Mircea Eliade identified the observation/participation duality 
as profane/sacred.  Anthropology is unique in that it tries to straddle 
the observation/participation duality, but ultimately it converts 
experience to symbols, so it is also engaged in the consumption of culture.

	Another aspect of objectification concerns commodities and 
advertising.  Sut Jhally in The Codes of Advertising considers 
advertising to be the most influential institution of socialization in 
modern society.  It structures the content of mass media, molds gender 
identity, creates needs and consumption of commodities, dominates 
political strategies, and controls cultural institutions such as sports 
and music.  An even more insidious feature of advertising is that it is 
discourse through and about objects.  It emphasizes the mediation of 
human needs through objects.  Advertising pollutes the self image in 
several ways, by creating narcissistic anxiety about the ways we look, 
smell, and act, and the commodities we need to consume in order to be 
acceptable.  Advertising has also been described as institutionalized 
lying, and creates false maps of reality.  For the biosemiotic self, this 
causes semiotoxicosis, a pathological gap between symbol and reality.

FOURTH COURSE:  CUISINE AS HEGEMONY
	Philippa Pullar reports in her book Consuming Passions (Pullar, 
1970) that the Roman emperor Vitellius once served a feast consisting of 
2,000 fish and 7,000 game birds.  One dish contained ingredients which 
had to be collected from every corner of the empire--pike livers, 
pheasant and peacock brains, flamingo tongues and lamprey milt.  The 
dish, by virtue of the geographical distribution of its ingredients, 
served as a symbol of the hegemony of the empire over those lands.  In 
much the same way, exotic cuisines, exotic commodities, and exotic women 
are colonial appropriations that serve to confirm power relations--it is 
clear who is consuming whom.  Spices, in particular, became an early 
focus of colonial conquest because of the powerful preverbal symbolism 
they evoked.  An essence, or essential nature of something, is also an 
aroma or perfume distilled from a material.  Inasmuch as a spice could 
signify a cuisine and a cuisine could signify a culture, control of the 
spice trade was not only economic control, it was symbolic control of the 
essence of that culture.  The roots of this concept lie somewhere between 
vertebrate/plant semiochemical interactions, the connections between 
perfume and magic (Gell,1977), and the direct innervation of the 
hippocampus by the olfactory nerve.

	The British used to have their own symbol of hegemony--to say 
that upon their empire the sun does not set.  Implicit in this assertion 
is that the sun does not rise upon it either.  Even as much as the sunset 
represents death, the sunrise represents renewal.  Within a closed system 
of total control, there cannotthere cannot be any renewal.  The 
autonomous snake, by consuming itself, renews itself.  Lord Acton's 
statement that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely 
refers to this lack of renewal.  I once constructed this syllogism as a 
humorous way of showing the contradictions of philosophy:

		Virtue is knowledge--Socrates
		Knowledge is power--Bacon
		Power corrupts--Lord Acton
therefore	Virtue corrupts.

The contradiction lies in the use of the same word power for two 
different relations.  The power referred to in the first two lines is 
autonomous power, power from within or spiritual power.  The second kind 
of power is power over others, domination.  The first kind of power is 
generative, the second kind corrupts.

	A modern aspect of cuisine as hegemony is the way that US foreign 
policy has redrawn the map and dictated life in other countries for the 
sake of our consumption.  The history of colonialism was directed by the 
need to consume spices, sugar, coffee, and tea.  The needs for these 
commodities were created in the process; what were once luxuries are now 
necessities, through a process of habituation and addiction.  In Central 
America, we have 'banana republics,' and in the Middle East, lines were 
drawn in the desert to concentrate oil-bearing strata in the hands of a 
few easily controllable families.  We do not eat oil, but it is 
indirectly consumed, because some of the energy it supplies would 
normally have to be supplied by human food consumption.

FIFTH COURSE:  CONSUMPTION AS DISEASE
	In the eighteenth century, consumption was a wasting disease, 
including, but not limited to, tuberculosis.  In the nineteenth century, 
consumption of commodities became a cure for social ills (Agnew, 1983).  
In his article, "Consumption: A disease of the consumer society?," Roy 
Porter (1993) examines the changing views about consumption (i. e., 
tuberculosis and other cachexias) and its relationship to consumption of 
food, drink, and goods.  The consumptions were declared a peculiarly 
English condition, the morbus anglicus, a disease of epidemic 
proportions.  Benjamin Marten declared that no country was more 
productive of consumptions than England.  Most of these early writers 
(who in the main leaned toward Christian asceticism) attributed 
consumption to riotous living, excessive consumption of food, drink, and 
sex.  Once consumed only as medicines or luxuries, coffee, tea, and 
tobacco were also added to this list as they became habits, necessities, 
and addictions.  For an English doctor named Beddoes, consumption was 
caused by a fetishization of culture, in which the body was neglected in 
the pursuit of wordly success.  Those interested in a holistic 
understanding of the current epidemic of wasting categorized as 
HIV/AIDS/ARC would do well to review the history of consumptive diseases 
and society's views towards them. Pathological metaphors about 
consumption and waste tend to cycle through our society as if it were an 
millenial bulimic: binge and purge every hundred years or so.

SIXTH COURSE:  CONSUMPTION DYSFUNCTIONS
	There are a number of psychophysiological dysfunctions that 
involve consumption:  obesity, anorexia, bulimia, alcoholism, and other 
forms of substance abuse.  Although the etiology of these disorders is 
complex, I propose that in general they result from the self's experience 
of being consumed.  In family systems that involve alcohol or sexual 
abuse or toxic shame or guilt or other forms of non-acceptance of a 
child's identity, the children's identities become absorbed or denied and 
the child creates a false self.  This creates a semiotic void in the 
child's self system, and the child unconsciously decides that 'consume or 
be consumed' is the law of the jungle.  This is the 'hungry self' 
(Chernin, 1985).  Interestingly, the hypothalamus is thought to be a 
likely locus of mind/body transduction (Moerman, 1991).  The hypothalamus 
regulates most consumptive behaviors, and it is likely that twisted 
symbolizations of traumatic experiences could be projected from the 
cortex to the hypothalamus to cause disorders in consumptive behavior. 	

	Feminists implicate the values of patriarchal society, which 
defines women in terms of their relation to men, as one of the causes of 
anorexia nervosa (Banks, 1992).  In order to be healthy, the self needs 
to be unconditionally accepted in its own self-image.  If it is striving 
to be accepted in terms of an external image, it will always be 
off-balance.  This is the 'body-image disturbance' theory of the etiology 
of anorexia nervosa (Thompson, 1990).  Turner (1984), on the other hand, 
implicates capitalistic values of unlimited consumption as one of the 
causes of eating disorders.  
	
	
SEVENTH COURSE:  THE CONSUMING SELF
	The totality and integrity of the biosemiotic self system in 
persons and cultures must be destroyed by capitalist culture in order to 
turn people into consumers, and to access resources controlled by other 
cultures.  It does this by a two fold process of digestion: first it must 
find the seam in the glassy unity of the self system (individual self or 
culture).  Since every self system is constructed of binary opposites, 
there is a seam running along its outer surface.  By a process that 
Bateson called schismogenesis, a double bind is imposed on the culture in 
the form of political and economic imperatives.  Existing conflicts and 
weaknesses in the culture are magnified and the culture slowly splits 
into two.  The second process is the imposition of matter and information 
from the outside, in the form of goods, medicine, food, education, and 
advertising.  This loosens the microscopic bonds between individuals, and 
alienates people from their own culture and from their own self.  Each 
external idea or commodity is a small wedge that acts as a digestive 
enzyme.  The circular snake is linearized, and aligns with the imposed 
ideological field like a magnet.

	As the local production system is subverted to the aims of 
capitalism, a counter flow of nutrients returns to the capitalist 
center--sugar, coffee, rubber, etc.  Thus we can see that the colonial 
state is like a starfish--it everts its stomach and digests a clam, first 
by opening the shell (schismogenesis) and then digesting the contents.  
Perhaps this explains the symbolism on the US flag: the stars refer to 
the starfish nature and the stripes refer to the linearization of 
circular, autonomous systems.  Incidentally, the US flag is almost 
identical to the corporate flag of the East India Company (Fuller, 
1985).  This proves to me that there was no American revolution, which 
would explain a lot of things about US foreign policy.

	The process referred to above, in which external matter and 
information is imposed upon a culture, needs to be examined in more 
detail.  It is sometimes called foreign aid, or tele-education, but can 
be more accurately described as nutritional and medical imperialism, and 
image colonization.  But first, it is necessary to examine the 
relationship between imperialism, colonialism, and capitalism, and their 
hidden assumptions about power and physiology.  

	There are interesting correlations between imperialism and 
Cartesian logic.  They both assume that there is an absolute center or 
absolute criterion for evaluating the importance of something.  
Imperialism and capitalism are inseparable, in that both rely on 
recontextualizing other cultures to the periphery.  Capital is both the 
concentration of wealth and the center of government, and derives from 
the Latin caput, meaning 'head.'  Capitalism is a head-centered world 
view indistinguishable from Cartesian philosophy.  Descartes not only 
divided the affective and cognitive components of the mind, he declared 
that one cannot trust the emotions.  Emotions are visceral messages, 
delivered to the brain from the periphery by the autonomic nervous 
system, that give one information about the relation between one's 
external environment and internal state, and the appropriate motivational 
response.  Not trusting your emotions leads to alcoholism or 
schizophrenia.  Cognition is a computation based on an internal 
representation derived from input from the five senses, four of which are 
located in the head.  According to McLuhan (1964), the Western world view 
is dominated by visual processing, so its cognition is narrowly derived 
from the visual mode.  The neurophysiological processing carried out by 
the visual cortex is called on-center, off-surround, which enhances edges 
in visual perception and enhances content over context, figure over 
ground, or center over periphery in cognition.  Thus one can see that the 
underlying structure of our political economy is dictated by our 
cognition.  There is no dark conspiracy behind the military-industrial 
complex--it follows from having one word, capital, mean both the center 
of government and the center of industry.  The violence done to 
indigenous people by our cognition is not abstract--1,942 nuclear bombs 
have been exploded in their sovereign territory (our periphery) under the 
guise of "nuclear testing."  This is nothing less than all-out nuclear 
war against the indigenous nations of the world, but this fact is utterly 
denied in nuclear discourse (Kato, 1993).

	Biomedicine is also based on Cartesian dualism.  Western 
culture's attitudes toward the body are replete with metaphors which 
confirm the power relations of imperialism:  The body is colonized and 
enslaved by the mind, which tries to extract as much work from it until 
the body rebels (collapses or becomes sick).  The rebellion is quelled by 
silencing the body's communications (symptoms).  A conspiracy of control 
and disinformation in the guise of religion crushes the body's will even 
further by blaming the addictions of the mind (the seven deadly sins) on 
the body.  Addiction is the result of linearizing an autonomous self 
system and its circular feedback regulation.  Borofsky (1975) analyzed 
the relation between social organization and ideas about disease, and he 
found a correlation between the locus of authority and the locus of 
disease.  Interestingly, this correlation does not hold for Western 
culture, for the locus of authority (the head of state, capital, men, or 
the mind) usually blames the periphery (marginalized social groups, the 
poor, women, the body) as the source of the problem (social unrest, 
poverty, hysteria, disease).  The importation of biomedicine into a 
culture breaks one of its relations to its ecology and makes it dependent 
on system of medicine that promotes the accumulation of capital and the 
commodification of health (McKee, 1988).  It leads to a consumption of 
medical products that makes the capitalists healthy, but not the 
indigenous culture (Paul, 1978).

	R. D. Laing, in his book, The Politics of Experience, details the 
ways that we make each other insane by invalidating each other's 
experience.  This is carried to extremes in the culture of science and 
rationality, in which individal subjective experience is invalidated in 
favor of "objective" experience.  Objectivity, however, is a tool of 
domination, because it is subjectivity in a state of denial.  Objectivity 
is subjectivity up to which someone is not owning.  Anthony Wilden, in 
his book System and Structure quotes Franz Fanon:  "For the colonized 
person, objectivity is always directed against him."   I wonder how 
history would have turned out if there had been a French philosopher 
named Deschevalles who proclaimed "Senso ergo sum"--that would have put 
the horse back before the cart.

	It would be best to summarize all of this with an example from 
Mattelart's book, Multinational Corporations and the Control of Culture 
(1979).  Samoa was chosen as a guinea pig by the Ford Foundation to test 
their tele-education project.  The programs during the day were 
educational; at night it was Disney and Bonanza.  The expert in charge of 
the project reported that in the beginning, the Samoans imported nothing, 
but now they were importing all sorts of foreign food.  "No one can live 
on papayas, coconuts, and bananas forever."  The Samoan lifestyle began 
to change, too.  Once content with sharing their income, food, and 
clothing, now they want to save their money individually to buy luxuries 
like washing machines and cars.  They abandoned many of their old 
customs, and have become more US-oriented than before.  The Samoan system 
is claimed to be the most successful educational television in the 
world.  Mattelart's comment was "this cynically pastoral presentation of 
the age-old act of imperialist aggression as the awakening of the natives 
to the benefits of a sterile modernity needs no comment."

	The upshot of all this is that corporations create an artificial 
culture whose fetishes and totems are not organisms from one's ecology, 
but commodities (Schiller, 1989).  These images are implanted as icons in 
the map of reality that is the self,  and govern one's cognition and 
motivation.  Virtual reality is the logical endpoint of this 
commodification of our experience.  This culture is ruthless in its 
one-dimensional alignment of people along the gradients of consumption.  
It is ideological and economic totalitarianism in which one must believe 
that the system is good because it delivers the goods (Marcuse, 1964).
 

EIGHTH COURSE:  CORPORATE STATE AS AMOEBA
	Borofsky (1975) noted that there are homologies between the body 
and the state, as in "the body politic" and "head of state," the "long 
arm of the law," and so on.  One can observe functional analogies between 
the industrial state and an organism, perhaps a large amoeba-like 
creature.  Primary resources are consumed by steam shovels which resemble 
a mouth with teeth.  Factories take in the resources and process them 
into products, which are input into other factories wich process them 
ultimately into commodities.  Factories in their appearance and function 
resemble intestines, which process food into excrement.  Consumers put 
themselves in the position of consuming someone else's excrement, which 
may explain the weirdness of buying and selling commodities.  In the case 
of buying a new or used automobile, the underlying structure is that the 
salesman literally sees how much shit you can swallow.  The Freudian 
Ferenczi has already determined that  money is deodorized dehydrated 
excrement that shines (Brown, 1991), so why not commodities?  It's a fair 
exchange after all, and might explain why they are called commode-ities.  

	The head of the amoeba is populated by those who own the means of 
production and capital.  Those who determine what enters the mouth of the 
amoeba must have good taste, and a good nose for business.  As one moves 
down the organism from producers to distributors to jobbers to 
wholesalers to retailers, one moves down a linear gradient of wealth and 
power, a vast flow field, each level consuming the excrement of the one 
above.  At the anus of the organism, is the landfill or the toxic waste 
dump.  During my years of promoting recycling programs, I have noticed a 
curious resistance to recycling even when it is economically compelling.  
I believe there is an imperative to consume in our culture, to continue 
the linear throughput of matter.  Recycling would just stagnate the flow 
and slow down economic growth.

	There is confirmation in popular fiction and music for this image 
of the corporate state as a consuming monster.  Chief Broom in One Flew 
Over the Cuckoo's Nest  called it 'the combine.'  Steppenwolf called it 
'the monster,' and Pink Floyd called it 'the machine.'  The state 
consumes not only earthly resources and human selves, it consumes whole 
nations.  In the film, Manufacturing Consent, a French photojournalist 
was being interviewed about her experiences in East Timor during the 
Indonesian invasion.  She said that she had to leave because it was clear 
that the Indonesians were going to "digest" the East Timorese. 

FOOD FOR THOUGHT:  COGNITION AS DIGESTION
	Capitalism's emphasis on the head may be due the power of the 
mouth to devour.  Interestingly, the mouth is used both to consume and to 
speak.  The relationship between discourse and consumption used to be, 
"Don't talk with your mouth full."  Now we can talk about the discourse 
of consumption and the consumption of discourse.  McLuhan (1964) invokes 
the myth of Cadmus to explain the power of the print medium to incite 
militarism by the linearization of thought.  Cadmus is credited with the 
invention of the alphabet, an event that is symbolized by the sowing of 
dragon's teeth, from which sprang an army of soldiers.  The letters of 
the alphabet resemble teeth in their compactness and linear order.  The 
alphabet meant power and authority and control of military structures 
from afar, which "put teeth into" the colonial empire building.  The 
linear order of the alphabet made possible the development of logical 
analysis.  Analysis, like digestion, consists in breaking things down 
into their component parts to make them easier to assimilate.  I know 
this is hard to swallow, but mull it over for awhile, ruminate about it, 
and be prepared to regurgitate your answer  ("mull" means to heat and 
spice, as in "mulled wine," and rumination and regurgitation are obvious 
digestive metaphors).
 
NINTH COURSE:  LYNDON LAROUCHE WAS RIGHT!
	Mary Douglas, in her book The World of Goods (1979), attempts to 
construct an anthropology of consumption.  In her view, goods function as 
a communication system and serve a double role of providing the means of 
subsistence and drawing the lines of social relationships.  In a healthy 
economy, the exchange of goods emphasizes as much the qualitative value 
of things (use value or prestige value) as their quantitative value 
(exchange value).  Douglas argues that the essential function of 
consumption is to make sense of experience.  In an autonomous system, 
production and consumption reaffirms the value of the self and gives 
meaning to its experience.  The western mercantilism system, with its 
emphasis on currency, exchange value, and profit, subverted this function 
to one based on coercion and control.  Goods became tools of domination, 
exploitation, and ultimately addiction.  This is aptly illustrated by an 
incident discussed by Sahlins (1988).  The British East India Company 
introduced tea into Britain, and the British quickly became addicted to 
it.  The British craving for tea resulted in a flood of silver going to 
China.  The Chinese had no use for British manufactured goods, and 
accepted only silver in exchange for tea.  Britain restored their 
unfavorable balance of trade by introducing opium to China and getting 
the Chinese addicted to it.  The advantage of opium as a commodity is 
that the demand for it is almost inelastic.  The British got their silver 
back and eventually fought a war in 1839 to enforce their illegal trade.  
This event confirms the coercive nature of mercantilism (Schivelbusch, 
1992), and shows that their ultimate aim is addiction--if manufactured 
commodities do not work, try opium.  Lyndon Larouche was right--the Queen 
of England was a drug dealer.  Incidentally, Margaret Thatcher was a food 
technologist, and her job was to see how much air could be pumped into 
ice cream before it collapsed.

TENTH COURSE:  GEOPHAGY REVISITED--THE CONSUMPTION OF PLANET EARTH BY 
TRANSNATIONAL CAPITAL
	The last two decades have seen dramatic changes in the world.  
There has been the fall of communism, the "victory" of capitalism, and 
even talk of "the end of history."  There has been a rise in globalism, 
concern for the environment, the biosphere, and biodiversity.  The symbol 
of Gaia as the whole system of Earth is gaining acceptance, and symbols 
of the earth are everywhere, on Burger King and McDonald's products and 
on "environmentally friendly" paper grocery bags.  Is this a good sign?  
James Lovelock, one of the originators of the Gaia hypothesis, is quoted 
by Myrdene Anderson (1990) as saying that Gaia is an empty sign with 
nearly infinite capacity for signification, but is filling up mostly with 
rubbish.  The planets proliferate; we have Planet Hollywood and Planet 
Reebok--"where there are no limits."  

	Masahide Kato (1993) claims that the earth symbol which is 
appearing everywhere is the new corporate logo of transnational capital 
(TNC), because it signifies the role of the strategic gaze in 
constructing a homogeneous social totality.  In line with the principle 
outlined above, that objectification precedes consumption, it is clear 
that Earth is poised to be consumed.   I feel that the fall of communism 
is a sign that the hegemony of TNC is complete, so that it no longer 
needs the false duality between the US and the USSR (Derrida has even 
analyzed the Beatles song, "Back in the US, Back in the US, Back in the 
USSR...and Georgia's always on my m-m-m-m-m-mmind!" in terms of this 
false dichotomy) to serve as a vice which crushed the non-aligned 
nations.  As to  the new globalism, it is a one-dimensional globalism, 
definitely on the terms of TNC.  There is zero tolerance for deviance.  
Just as deviance has been increasingly medicalized (Conrad & Schneider, 
1992), and medicine is governed by militaristic metaphors, so US 
militarism is governed by medical metaphors.  We don't fight wars any 
more, we conduct "surgical strikes."  Antibiotics were the "magic 
bullets," and bombs look like giant pills.  The concern for biodiversity 
is limited to potential products, cures for cancer, AIDS, etc. which may 
lay undiscovered in some rain forest plant.  The only way to preserve 
cultural diversity is to have the natives produce some commodity for 
consumers to buy--rugs, clothes, or "rainforest crunch."  Americans are 
cultural omnivores, and the background conversation is still dominated by 
consumption.
	
DESSERT:  CONSUMER CULTURE AS ONCOMEME 
	A cell is a biosemiotic community.  There is a center, occupied 
by the nucleus, and a periphery, bordered by a membrane.  Hormones and 
neurotransmitters are signs that are received by and through the 
periphery and are transduced into analog signals or make their way to the 
nucleus, where they initiate longer term changes in the cell's 
metabolism.  The DNA in the nucleus of a healthy cell is in two-way 
conversation with the periphery, contrary to the early dogma which 
stipulated a one-way flow of instructions from the DNA.  A cancerous 
cell, however, is in one-way communication and proliferates out of 
proportion to its place in the organism.  There is a two-step process by 
which a cell becomes cancerous and grows into a tumor.  The first step is 
carcinogenesis, and results from DNA damage; the second step is 
tumorigenesis and results from the cell being cut off from communication 
with cells at its periphery, which activates genes called oncogenes.  
Alternatively, an oncovirus can insert an oncogene into the cell's DNA 
and cause the cell to proliferate.  An oncogene usually codes for a 
truncated receptor, that generates signals for cell growth and 
proliferation without feedback control (Darnell, et. al., 1990).  The 
transformed cell becomes aggressive and can kill other cells.  The 
growing tumor can secrete growth factors which redirect blood vessels and 
initiate vascularization.  Finally, specialized cells can metastasize and 
colonize other tissues of the body.  Cancer, once thought to be an 
anarchistic riot of cell growth, is actually a highly organized system, 
in which a part assumes control of the whole.

	One can see that there are homologies between the imperialist 
notion of center and periphery and capitalism's uncontrolled economic 
growth, and the processes which are involved in tumorigenesis.  I believe 
that consumer culture also proliferates itself by similar mechanisms.  By 
image colonization and pseudo-objectivity, external memes are planted in 
the self system and reproduce by echogenesis.  People are alienated from 
each other and their culture by a discourse of objects.  Education and 
socialization consistently repress the individual.  The autonomous self 
is faced with a double bind--conform or be marginalized ("If you are not 
with us, you are against us.").  In conformity the self withers away, 
leaving a false self which is hollow and hungry and born to shop.  In 
marginality, you get to keep your self, but you can't do much with it, 
because there is no reflection that validates it.  

	In South America, this loss of self is called 'soul loss' 
(Crandon-Malamud, 1990).  Taussig analyzed capitalist development in 
South America and its effects on the workers there.  These workers 
experienced the evil inherent in the capitalist relations of production 
and fetishized it in the image of the devil.  The contract with the devil 
symbolizes an economic system which forces people to trade their souls 
for commodities.  In the consumer culture, commodities are intrinsically 
good--'goods'--; in non-capitalist societies marginalized by the system 
of production, 'goods' lure people into a double bind which is ultimately 
bad for them.  Consumption is truly the modern religion if one realizes 
that credit and debit come from Latin words meaning belief and necessity, 
respectively.  In most religions, God is the locus of faith and 
necessity, but in the consumer religion, money is that locus.

POSTPRANDIAL RUMINATION:  WHAT DOES IT ALL MEAN?
	One can tell that we are a materialistic culture by our 
language:  matter matters, as in "What is the matter with you?" or "It 
doesn't matter."  When Feuerbach ("fire stream" in German) said, "Matter 
is eternal," he doomed us to another sort of double bind.  By replacing 
an infinite mystery with finite matter as an object of worship, it is 
implicit that we must consume an infinite amount of matter to consummate 
the relationship.  The contradiction is that we don't love matter.  It 
seems we must despise it, because we turn most of it into trash.  Milan 
Kundera, in his novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being, bemoans the 
uglification of the world, a planetary process he blames on people 
feeling bad about their excrement.  The law of entropy 
('verwandlungscontent' in German) says that matter is transformed.  It is 
a desperate act of control to fix matter as eternal and unchanging.

	Descartes is credited with the mind/body duality, but this is a 
misnomer.  The duality is actually head/body, because the hidden 
assumption is that the mind is located in the head rather than 
distributed throughout the body, ecosystem or universe.  The paradox of 
human existence is really not the mind/body duality, but a sign/signal 
duality.  That is to say, unlike other semiotic systems which communicate 
by digital signs between levels and with analog signals within levels, 
the human self communicates with digital symbols (words) and analog 
signals (body language) simultaneously.  A double bind results when the 
meanings of these two messages conflict (Bateson, 1979).  The American 
double bind is trying to attain autonomy through 'rugged 
individualism'--masochistic self-control and self-denial directed towards 
perfecting one's self in an external image.  As an autonomous being 
growing up in America, I can attest that it is a very anti-individual 
society.  There is intense pressure to conform to a discourse and a 
social contract of covert interpersonal aggression.  A better way to 
attain autonomy might be through self-acceptance.  The society as a whole 
has the dynamic of the anorectic, in which ascetic values lead to a 
distorted self-image and disordered consumptive behavior.

REFERENCES

Agnew, C.  1983.  "The consuming vision of Henry James," in Fox and 
	Lears, 1983, pp. 65-100.
Anderson, M.  1992.  Concerning Gaia--Semiosic production of/in/by/for 
	our planet," in Biosemiotics.  The Semiotic Web 1991, ed. TA 
	Sebeok.  Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.
Banks, CG.  1992.  'Culture' in culture-bound syndromes: the case of 
	anorexia nervosa.  Soc. Sci. Med. 34:867-884.
Bateson, G.  1979.  Mind and Nature.  A Necessary Unity.  Bantam Books, 
	Toronto.
Borofsky, R.  1975.  Power, authority, and disease.
Brewer, J. and Porter, R.  1993.  Consumption and the World of Goods.  
	Routledge, London.
Brown, NO.  1991.  Apocalypse and/or Metamorphosis.  University of 
	California Press, Berkeley.
Burch, MT.  1992.  Weaving the vital flow:  biocultural perspectives on 
	ritual healing.  Typescript.
Chernin, K.  1985.  The Hungry Self.  Women, Eating, and Identity.  Times 
	Books, New York.
Cohen, A.  1977.  "Symbolic action and the structure of the self,"  in 
	Lewis, 1977, pp. 117-128.
Conrad, P. and Schneider, JW.  1992.  Deviance and Medicalization.  
	Temple University Press, Philadelphia.
Crandon-Malamud, L.  1991.  From the Fat of our Souls.  University of 	
	California Press, Berkeley.
Darnell, J., Lodish, H., and Baltimore, D.  Molecular Cell Biology.  W. 
	H. Freeman, New York.
Deleuze, G. and Guattari, F.  1987.  A Thousand Plateaus--Capitalism and 
	Schizophrenia.  University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis.
Douglas, M. and Isherwood, B.  1979.  The World of Goods.  W. W. Norton & 
Co., New York.
Dow, J.  1986.  Universal aspects of symbolic healing:  A theoretical 
synthesis.  Amer. 	Anthropologist  88:56-69.
Fox, RW and Lears, TJJ.  1983.  The Culture of Consumption:  Critical 
Essays in 	American  History, 1880-1980.  Pantheon Books, New York.
Fuller, B.  1981.  Critical Path.  St. Martin's Press, New York.
Gell, A.  1977.  Magic, perfume, dream...in Lewis, 1977, pp. 25-38.
George, DER.  1987.  Ritual drama: between mysticism and magic.  Asian 
Theater 	Journal, 4: 127-165.
Jantsch, E.  1980.  The Self-Organizing Universe.  Pergamon Press, New York.
Jhally, S.  1987.  The Codes of Advertising:  Fetishism and the Political 
Economy of 	Meaning in the Consumer Society.  Frances Pinter, London.
Kato, M.  1993.  Nuclear globalism:  Traversing rockets, satellites, and 
nuclear war via the 	strategic gaze.  Alternatives 18:339-360.
Knauft, BM.  1979.  On Percussion and metaphor.  Current Anthropology 
20:189-190.
Koestler, A.  1978.  Janus--A Summing Up.  Random House, New York.
Laing, RD.  1967.  The Politics of Experience.  Ballantine Books, New York.
Levi-Strauss, C.  1964.  The Raw and the Cooked.  Harper & Row, New York.
Lewis, I.  1977.  Symbols and Sentiments--Cross-cultural Studies in 
Symbolism.  	Academic Press, London.
Marcuse, H.  1964.  One-Dimensional Man.  Beacon Press, Boston.
Margulis, L.  1970.  Origin of Eukaryotic Cells.  Yale University Press, 
New Haven.
McKee, J.  1988.  Holistic health and the critique of western medicine.  
Soc. Sci. Med. 26: 	775-784.
McLuhan, M.  1964.  Understanding Media--The Extensions of Man.  
McGraw-Hill, New 	York.
Moerman, DE.  1991.  Physiology and symbols: the anthropological 
implications of the 	placebo effect, in The Anthropology of Medicine:  
>From Culture to Method (L. 	Romanucci-Ross, DE Moerman, LR Tancredi, 
eds.), pp. 129-143.  Bergin & 	Garvey, New York.
Napier, AD.  1992.  Foreign Bodies--Performance, Art, and Symbolic 
Anthropology.  
	University of California Press, Berkeley.
Paul, JA.  1978.  "Medicine and imperialism," in The Cultural Crisis of 
Modern Medicine.  	J. Ehrenreich, ed.  pp. 271-286.  Monthly Review 
Press, New York.
Pinel, JPJ.  1990.  Biopsychology.  Allyn and Bacon, Boston.
Porter, Roy.  1993.  "Consumption:  Disease of the Consumer Society?," in 
Brewer and 	Porter, 1993, pp. 58-81. 
Pullar, P.  1970.  Consuming Passions--A History of English Food and 
Appetite.  Hamish 	Hamilton, England.
Sahlins, M.  1983.  Cosmologies of capitalism:  the trans-pacific sector 
of 'the world 	system.'  Proc. Brit. Acad. LXXIV, 1-51.
Schiller, HI.1989.  Culture, Inc.  Oxford University Press, New York.
Schivelbusch, W.  1992.  Tastes of Paradise.  A Social History of Spices, 
Stimulants, and 	Intoxicants.  Pantheon Books, New York.
Sebeok, TA.  1976.  Contributions to the Doctrine of Signs.  University 
Press of America, 	Boston.
Singer, M.  1984.  Man's Glassy Essence.  Indiana University Press, 
Bloomington.
Taussig.  The Devil and Commodity Fetishism.
Thompson, JK.  1990.  Body Image Disturbance.  Pergamon Press, New York.
Turner, B.  1984.  The Body and Society.  Explorations in Social Theory.  
Blackwell, 	Oxford.
Varela, FJ.  1979.  Principles of Biological Autonomy.  North Holland, 
New York.
Wilden, A. System and Structure.

EPILOGUE:  HUNGER

I only find within my bones
A taste for eating earth and stones
When I feed, I feed on air,
Rocks and coals and iron ore.

My hunger, turn.  Hunger, feed:
	A field of bran
Gather as you can the bright
Poison weed.

Eat the rocks a beggar breaks
The stones of ancient churches walls.
Pebbles, children of the flood.
Loaves left lying in the mud.

Beneath a bush a wolf will howl
Spitting bright feathers 
>From his feast of fowl
Like him, I devour myself.

Waiting to be gathered
Fruits and grasses spend their hours
The spider spinning in the hedge
Eats only flowers.

Let me sleep!  Let me boil
On the altar of Solomon.
Let me soak the rusty soil
And flow into Kedron.  			

--Arthur Rimbaud

	http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
         ___         ___            ___
        /  /\       /  /\          /  /\
       /  /:/      /  /::\        /  /::\
     /  /:/       /  /:/\:\      /  /:/\:\
    /  /::\      /  /:/ /::\    /  /:/  \:\   
   /__/:/\:\    /__/:/ /:/\:\  /__/:/ \__\:\     
   \__\/  \:\   \  \:\/:/__\/  \  \:\ /  /:/ 
        \  \:\   \  \::/        \  \:\  /:/
         \  \:\   \  \:\         \  \:\/:/
          \  \:\   \  \:\         \  \::/
	   \__\/    \__\/          \__\/


--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majordomo@lglobal.com with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
			Also check out:
	<a href=http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/tao.html>
