

            "Vive le culture Francais, Fight The Cuts"
The Anarchives                                Volume 2 Issue 21
        The Anarchives                        Published By
                The Anarchives                The Anarchy Organization
                        The Anarchives        tao@lglobal.com

                Send your e-mail address to get on the list
                Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--                        
             /  /  \  \                        France Fights Back
         ---|--/----\--|---                
             \/      \/                        excerpts from A-Infos
             /\______/\                        

-~  -~  -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~  -~  -~

revolution is alive and well in france
but news of the events are few and far between
as the broadcasting media skate on the surface
of one of the more defining protests of the decade.

word from france is making it's way across the globe
via the a-infos project, and the european counter network in france.
more from: http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/A-Infos95/france.html

all over the industrial world, governments are cutting back
but only in france are the people fighting back with such passion...

-~  -~  -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~   -~  -~  -~  -~

from: counter@francenet.fr
translated by: neil@lds.co.uk

UNI INFO NETWORK
-------------------

THEIR RESERVES AREN'T BIG ENOUGH... FOR THE DEPTHS OF OUR DESIRE

Throughout France students are mobilising...

All around us: 3.5 million unemployed, a growing mass of workers whose jobs
are on the line across the planet, the growing impoverishment of whole
continents whilst the wealth of the world never ceases to grow...

Here, even in Perpignan (TN: SW France) there are loads of us who live in
shit, unemployment, on a minimum income, grabbing a free ride on the
transport and tax system often not knowing where to sleep and what to eat.

Are our actions apolitical? Ridiculous question! It's unbelievable... as if
the wish to jeopardise the whole of society wasn't a political decision
aiming to provide a compliant and obediant workforce on demand. We are
opposing this set-up however naive we may be! We haven't understood at all!
Paying people as little as possible is the only way to be competitive within
a neo-liberal framework and to oppose restraints is to oppose the logic of
the market... In other words our action is as political as that which would
take the taxpayers money to Mururoa instead of investing it in education...

All around us despite the false pretences of the media the flood of
repression and exclusion is growing... Our future is being pawned, the
present brings its own impoverishments. There is the right to be layed off,
the right to despair or anger, there is the humiliation of immigrant
workers, there are the expulsions and the extraditions, there is the return
to moral, sexist and religious order, there is selection in our universities
and the employment exchanges, there is the teachers crisis, there is the
restructuring of the social security system. There is nothing but the rich
getting richer and the poor getting poorer. Then there's the police and wage
slavery which beckons. There's the take-over of education by the bosses and
Pasqua's schemes paid for out of public funds and there is racism.

20% of the population own 68% of its wealth whilst 60% make do with 12%. We
face the end of education for pleasure, we face Chernobyl and the hole in
the ozone, we face work which crushes us and unemployment which kills, we
face a growth in public begging - now forbidden as it was in Perpignan this
summmer, we face the fall of the APL, we face the right which attacks and
the left which lies, the unions in a state of crisis, we face a miserable
income and an income of misery, overcrowded prisons, housing crises,
boredom, a dead end future. We have had enough!

- Students on strike.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RIOTS - JUSSIEU

30/11/95

* Demonstration of about 20,000 people better than the previous one (30,000
but that was before the transport strike)

* Students, school attenders but also the unemployed showed more determination.

* During the demo there were confrontations with the riot police but it is
hard to tell if this was the work of agents provocateurs or demonstrators

* The demonstrators moved on to Jussieu (as part of a national
co-ordination) and perhaps a thousand were there throughout the night.

* Attempts were made to form barricades (cars were overturned) but with
little success up until now. Only the ordinary police were called out.

* There were many arrests

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

UNI INFO NETWORK

A NIGHT OF DEMONSTRATING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF JUSSIEU SETS THE STUDENT
DELEGATES RUNNING

On the devastated forecourt of Jussieu, where a few fires are burninng, the
lights from the campus university pierces the night at the foot of tower 43

Broken open by metal bars a little after 10 pm, the bookshop is witness to a
continuous procession of 'customers' who leave, loaded down with plastic
bags on which you can read 'Les Librairies du SAVOIR' (TN publicity slogan)

Inside books are strewn over the floor. 'Help yourself!' shouts a big type,
who is destroying the computer data behind the counter. Amidst the sound of
broken glass, and the frantic activities of the demonstrators, students are
doing their shopping. Two worlds meet without recognising each other.
Dressed in a pullover and a duffle coat one young man asks his neighbour,
who is filling a bag with stationary, where the chemistry papers are. From
the mouth of a student of Art History the wordds pour out, 'It's crazy what
they are doing, you can't approve but at the same time it's too late, best
take advantage of the situation. I can never buy myself any books, the
feeling of power at being able to help yourself without paying... it's
unbelievably exciting'.

This was the scene on November 21st - the end of a demonstration marked by
incidents (...) threatening to start again throughout the night with ten
times the violence. Shortly before 7 pm, Thursday, there were incidents
around the university of Jussieu. Three cars were overturned by groups of
young people. A fistful of molotov cocktails were thrown at the riot police
at place Jussieu. Behind the university gates was set up a type of barricade
with tables, chairs, rubbish bins...

'If the riot cops come into the uni there will be big trouble', a small
well-organised group w earing sweatshirts with white hoods, began to sack
the campus. Smashed up with sledgehammers, the concrete of the forecourt was
transformed into projectiles which came raining down on the roofs of the
cars parked outside.

'We are hungry', shouted voices from the cafeteria at the entrance to the
university. 'Can't we get the keys?' asked one studdent. At about 7.45 the
cafeterias windows were smashed in with metal bars. A crowd of demonstrators
and students piled inside. Drink and food vending machines were quickly
destroyed and theircontents consumed. 'There's enough for everyone'. The
hungry got behind the fast food counter and set up an improvised restaurant
service.

Meanwhile in amphitheatre 44, the national co-ordinating body was having a
meeting. Militants from UNF and UNEF-ID were in attendance but also many
grassroots delegates who had come in from outside the city elected by
general assemblies. At the entrance to the amphitheatre a roll call was made
of the various towns one by one. Sandwiches are eaten annd folk warm up to
the idea of the '4 billion franc reserve fund' of the university presidents

Some expressed their concerns quickly blaming the anarchists alone for the
disorder some meters away. Members of the CNT (National Confereration of
Labour), dressed in black leather, with scarves and flags under their arms
deny it.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY DEFERRED

The tension was mounting with constant attempts to gain entry from the very
excited young people. Well organised they fell back and came on again and
again. Whenn finally most of the delegates from Paris and other cities had
got in those on the doors gave up unnder the pressure. It was chaotic. The
group which could have formed the coordinating committee made off to the
Arab World Institute. The General Assembly was finally ajourned until 8.30
the following morning to take place at Censier. In amphitheatre 45 a wild
General Assembly took place infiltrated by some of the go-to-the-limits
militants of Paris 8 Saint Denis along with a postal worker calling for a
general strike and some railway workers. Drinks and food from dispensers,
half consumed, were strewn everywhere. Standing on a table someone was
waving a huge black flag with a red star. One young person was clutching
bags from the bookshop whilst being pushed by one of his friends, 'Drop it
you'll get done as you go out... the riot cops are everywhere' Bags fall to
the ground. 'We've got to have a discussion' shouted someone who nobody was
listening to. A vote was taken in complete disorder on a motion from Saint
Denis saying, 'no to the false negotiators'. Free public transport,
reduction in working hours, an end to the nuclear programme, a general and
unlimited strike - all was demanded... in chaotic scenes. Suddenly the
lights were turned off - by whom wasn't clear. The 'votes' unable to be
taken by a show of hands took place on sound volume but darkness soon
discouraged these last combattants.

Beatrice Gurrey

(Le Monde 3rd December 1995)

Note - Despite some journalistic glosses this article seems to come the
nearest to what actually happened according to comrades who were present at
Jussieu.

_______________________________________________________

R=C9SEAU-INFOS-FACS
---------------------------------------------------------------

Nantes le 6/12/95

On Tuesday 5th December several hundred people (500 to 800) confronted the
forces of law and order.

The confrontations began with some stone throwing (successful!) smashing the
windows of the police station. This was followed by some molotov cocktails
thrown against the walls. The events started at around 4.00pm whilst the
trade union demo had ended at around 1.00pm. The confrontations lasted until
11.00pm

The police used strong tear gas from the beginning along with disbursal
grenades. An enormous and teryfying police deployment plunged the town
centre into a de facto curfew: shops and bars closed, empty roads with
police checkpoints.

All public transport was stopped. According to the press there were 21
police injured but none of the demonstrators were hurt. There were four
arests for confrontations and 7 for looting. These figures do not seem
credible given the fleet of ambulances going from the hospital to the
university.

Moreover plain clothes police gave chase by car. Members of the National
Front and Student Renewal could be found behind the riot police lines and at
the beginning of the confrontation were making propaganda among the
demonstrators.

Many people who tried to intervene during the strongarm arrests were
insulted and even charged with obstruction by the police.

Bits and Pieces

The riot police were seen to be relieving passersby (young people...) of
their scarves, hats and jackets before ordering them to disburse. Those who
stayed behind were carted off.

Young girls and other evening strollers were truncheoned along the security
perimeter set up by the police. A creche that was in the vecinity was filled
with tear gas, the parents who protested were threatened and insulted.

There were numerous provocations andd manipulations by civilian police
trying to push the demonstrators into going 'too far'.

THE THINNER THE CARROT THE BIGGER THE STICK

__________________________
RESEAU INFOS FAC
--------------------------

Take care, a train on strike may be hiding another...

The essence of a social movement is to continually question the facts of a
situation and to transform yesterdays certainties into todays doubts and to
supply tomorrows questions. As the relations of power evolve, problems
present themselves with more clarity. Those questions which are being raised
by the current strike action may be decisive for what is to come.

Today the strike has a grip on almost the totality of the public sector. At
the same time - at least in Paris - student agitation seems to be having
difficulty in transforming itself into a veritable movement. A minority is
engrossed in an assemblyist activism which cannot go beyond the corporatist
framework which is under the control of the unions. The real relationship
between delegates, students and coordinating groups is hidden by clashes
between splinter groups at the heart of the coordinating committees and
which are, little by little, losing all credibility and are only
coordinating manipulative projects. The activism of this minority has only
survived thanks to the breath of life given to it by the workers strike.
Despite the energy of some to get accepted certain political proposals,
despite the radicalisation of a section of the student body, this 'movement'
has been unable, up until now, to go beyond its corporatism, or to invent or
liberate creative subversion.

In the striking public sector, certain aspects are appearing in a new light

The movement has been launched from the grassroots and has been carried
along by a profound feeling of discontent which has been with our society
for a long time. However, the vast majority of the strikers seem to have
become the consumers of their own actions; active participation is left to
the syndicalist militants. In some cases only collective engagement has been
preserved. Whatever may be the case, the depth of the movement has already
brought into being a dynamic which has gone beyond the initial objectives

Faced with the brutal choices of power - just as much determined by the
strikers themselves - one might wonder what are the forces within the
movement and what are its perspectives. Globally the strike remains under
the control of the unions, even if the clout of the delegates seems to be
the determining factor.. The unions are the only ones in a position to
negotiate the 'big deal' which is being projected as a 'reasonable' way out
of the conflict. The explosion into daylight of the class struggle, is
necessary for the capitalists to take a realistic assessment of the
situation and to define the framework of a new 'general interest'. Such a
confrontation may not displease them in so far as the outcome may be reached
quite amicably. On their sidee, the unions also need to struggle to
reinvigorate them from a low starting point. The form taken by this conflict
is an indirect consequence of the crisis of French syndicalism and its
urgent need to recover minimum representation. This weakness of the unions
is also the strength of the movement. One new factor in particular, the
strikers show themselves to be receptive and also concerned by what is
happening elsewhere in society. They have proved themselves capable of
extending their stuggle by means of their own strength, coming out of their
places of exploitation in order to meet up with other workers and persuade
them to join the struggle. Many of them have come over to support the
students in their struggle.

The lack of creation of forms of organisation which are able to express the
determination and the new aspirations of struggle is the main weakness of
this movement. It explains the passive attitude of a section of the
proletariat. This absense is as remarkable as the fact that the isolated
struggles of recent times have given rise to numerous autonomous
organisations. Today any generalisation about the strike serves the union
interest, reinforcing in a like manner their ability to negotiate

Henceforth the weakness of the autonomous movement  faced with the machinery
of the unions is synonomous with its defeat. If the movement is incapable of
going further and creating independant organisations which can bring
together both the unionised and non-unionised, it will be as incapable of
forming links with workers in the private sector who at the moment are the
hostages of the boss class. When the moment comes it will no longer be a
case of fighting the take over of the movement by the unions. It will be too
late. The union bosses and those in power will share out the fruit of our
energy and our generosity. Those who struggle today will pay the bill
tomorrow. Henceforth only by going beyond the union framework will we give a
new burst of life to the strike, to young people who are instruggle in the
universities and the schools. Th opening up of the strikers to other groups
is one of the strengths of the movement

TRANSFER APPARENTLY INTERUPTED

HOW TO PLEASE THE PEOPLE

A million took to the streets in France on Thursday. Even the French state
has admitted that is might not be able to hold out if the figure doubles and
was making much of the fact that in Paris only (sic) 50,000 turned out.

In fact this figure represents the success of the actions taken so far which
largely started and still continue in the transport sector preventing not
only the economy from functioning but also, to a degree, stopping people
from getting to the demonstrations. There is still no rail service in France
and in Paris there is no public transport system. Bus and Metro services are
also at a standstill in Bordeaux, Greenoble and Limoges and are severly
disrupted in most other provincial cities. The airports are also severly
affected operating at about half capacity in the capital where also any
attempt to move on the roads will be prevented by up to nine mile trafic
jams... and still a million were on the streets.

The response of the French State has been predictable. One of the worst
outbreaks of violence occured in the East of France yesterday (8th December)
when striking coal miners were forced to defend themselves against the riot
police. Several were injured in events where the police used batons and tear
gas against miners who had little more than sticks with which to defend
themselves.

The other attack comes from a more overt political direction. The media in
France has successfully narrowed down the scope for debate to the argument
over whether there should be 'debate' (the state wins) or 'negotiation' (the
unions win) whereas the reality would seem to be that the stakes are far
higher with the winners of losers to be either labour or capital.

Capital has tied its flag firmly to the European Union and the lure of the
single currency the mechanics of which mean 'another round' of cuts and
austerity programmes. Five years ago the 'Union' represented a market of
600,000,000 in five years time it will be 6,000,000,000 and if united in any
way by a single currency will represent the exploiters dream.

The interests of the people of Europe are other but will depend largely
within this context as to how far they can socialise the question and move
away from a simple economic framework in order to start building a society
worthy of that name. Identifying too closely with the unions will be their
downfall. The State has now announced the appointment of a 'mediator' (NB
not dialogue _or_ negotiation) in a clear move to divide the strikers. The
State has identified the railway workers as the key figures and wishes to
lure them back to work in order to break the people's resolve. The union
leaders think they have the bit between their teeth with the leader of the
Socialist Force Ouvriere, Marc Blondel, predicting bigger marches next week
strating with a day of action on Tuesday. 'The Government', says M. Blondel,
'has to find a way of pleasing everyone'.

M. Blondel surely understands the nature of government better than to
believe his own rhetoric. The only way the government will succeed in
finding a way of pleasing the people would be for it to disappear up its own
arse.

--------------------------------------------------
         --/\--          A-Infos   A-Infos
       /  /  \  \            A-Infos   A-Infos
   ---|--/----\--|---            A-Infos   A-Infos
       \/      \/
       /\______/\   http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/ainfos.html

        To Subscribe to a-infos
         Send a message to majordomo@lglobal.com
          With the message in the body:
           subscribe a-infos
--------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majordomo@lglobal.com with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
			Also check out:
		http://www.lglobal.com/TAO/
