:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::July/99
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 6 - File 10:::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Conclusion [It ain't over till the fat lady sings]:

  Firstly we wish to apologise for the gap in issues, but we got there - so less
of the abuse. We aren't really sure if anyone ever reads these editorials, since
no one ever emails us about the topics of editorials, nor has anyone ever listened
to our requests and rants. When we said that without articles from outside sources
(yeah know, SUBMISSIONS) we wouldn't be able to continue, we actually meant it. As 
it is, one of the editors will not be with us after this release. Rue unfortunatly 
has chosen for personal reasons to leave us. Cronus will happily take up the reigns
but not without feeling the loss. 

  The whole of the underground seems to be in flux at the moment. You know its a
rather sad state of affairs when hugly well-known 'security' groups such as cDc
(Cult of the Dead Cow) release software on CD that is infected. Not innocently
infected with some new virus that is unheard of, but the CiH virus which was wide
spread nearly two months ago... RELM even covered it in the last DoJ issue. If 
we can handle it, but cDc can't than you have to think.

  We realise that www.Rue-the-Day.net (where the DoJ site was) is down and it will
remain down for the forseeable future. Rue is going into some full time education
and is all but leaving the underground circles that he was part of. Perhaps he
will return, but in the mean time - we mourn a friend. The DoJ site can be now
reached at www.sinnocence.com/discordia and for that we would like to thank our
friend Sinnocence.

  Thats all I wanted to say, I can hear your exhaling in satisfaction that the
editorial is over. Remember that if you read the DoJ then your part of the staff.
And we'll fire you if you don't bother to email, write or help to publise us...

  Just give that some thought...