              A
             AA
           AAAA        The A-Infos News Service
         AA   AA
       AA       AA
     INFOSINFOSINFOS   http://www.tao.ca/ainfos/
   AAAA       AAAA
 AAAAA      AAAAA

	"The street party is only a beginning..."	
The Anarchives 				Volume 4 Issue 9
	The Anarchives			Published By
		The Anarchives		TAO Communications
			The Anarchives	www.tao.ca

		Send your e-mail address to get on the list
		Spread The Word Pass This On...

               --/\--			Reclaim The Streets
             /  /  \  \			
         ---|--/----\--|---		an interview
             \/      \/			by Naomi Klein
             /\______/\			<n...@tao.ca>

-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~

Interview with Reclaim The Streets Organizer John Jordan
conducted by Naomi Klein <n...@tao.ca>

I met John Jordan under a foot of mud at the Glastonbury Music Festival in
England last summer. He was standing in front of the Reclaim The Streets
tent, spreading the word about what already may be Britain's fastest
growing activist phenomenon and is certainly its most interesting. Since
1991, RTS has been throwing carnivalesque "Street Parties" on reclaimed
strips of private space -- city streets, construction sites, stretches of
highway. The location of the street ambush is kept secret until the day of
the event when RTSers gather at a meeting place and proceed en masse to the
roadway. They block it off with barricades, hook up sound systems and spend
the day dancing, socializing and planting trees in the asphalt. The last
major RTS event -- part rave, part labour rally, part riot  -- drew 20,000
partiers into London's Trafalger Square.  I had hoped to interview John
Jordan at Glastonbury but the mud and other muddying influences kept us
from getting overly serious. We agreed instead to correspond by e-mail when
I got back to Canada. What follows is the e-interview:

-=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~ -=~

NK: I'm writing a book which argues that the rise in anti-corporate activism
is an inevitable reaction against ever more intrusive marketing and
commercialization as well as a response to the stark inequalities of
economic globalization. It's looking at brand-based campaigns like those
against McDonald's and Shell, as well ad-busting and culture jamming.
Where, if anywhere, do you see RTS fitting into this analysis?

JJ: RTS developed out of the no M11 campaign, a local campaign that fought
a motorway that cut through 350 homes in East London and an ancient
woodland. As a result RTS has always had its roots in both social and
ecological activism. This is very different from the majority of UK anti
roads campaigns that were coming from a deep ecology/earth first
background. This social foundation, led RTS to move from the issues of
Roads, to the car itself as a force of social control and domination.
Inevitably once the car was taken as a symbol of social divisions, private
space versus public space, isolation from nature/the outside world (the
steel cocoon/bubble)and of the break up of community - its not a big step
to see the car as central to the economic system and a key pin of
increasing corporate power. (look at the top TNC's of the G7 nations only
one is not car or oil based). RTS has always tried to take the 'single
issue' of transport and the car, into a wider critique of society- an
attack on the enclosure of capitalism, to wrestle power away from the
undemocratic and profoundly unecological hands of corporations and to dream
of reclaiming all space for collective use as commons.

The link with anti-corporate activism also goes beyond theory, although
known for its street parties, RTS has also been involved in anti oil
industry actions - sHell AGM - 1995. BP action 1996; anti car manufacturers
actions - car launch sabotage 1995 (under the spoof guise of the Pedestrian
Liberation Front!) - critical mass and banner drop at London International
Motorshow 1996 . The link up with the Liverpool Dockers, places us directly
in the position of critiquing corporate greed, the casualization of labour
and the attempt to bring radical ecology face to face with traditional
labour movements.

People involved with RTS are also working in other groups and campaigns
such as Mc Libel campaign, Corporate Watch, anti genetics campaigns, anti
logging and anti globalization groups.

NK: How much ad-busting/subvertizing is going on in England right now?

JJ: There has always been a strong current of ad busting/subvertising in
the UK. Partly because Situationist ideas took root here in the early 70's
with groups like Heatwave, the Angry Brigade and then of course the
ultimate recuperation of the Sex Pistols. Many key people in RTS see
Situationism as a strong influence; its ideas of play and pleasure as
revolutionary practices, of creating transformatory urban 'situations' and
of 'detournement' subverting any sign into something else (even its
opposite) - have all helped develop RTS's practice..

RTS has always seen subvertising as part of its strategy, and it has also
proved a great way of 'democratizing' direct action. To subvertise a
billboard you don't have to have any particular skills or fearlessness, you
just go out in a group with paint or prepared messages, and go to work on
your chosen billboard. Many people have seen subvertizing as their first
step into the unknown and sometimes terrifying world of direct action.

In my own work I have done series of spoof events - ranging from a spoof
sex shop, a spoof porn CD-ROM (part of a 5 year project I worked on about
men's relationship to pornography) and a spoof developments agency to dig
up a buried river in London. Personally I see these as forms of adbusting,
as they are using the aesthetics and marketing strategies of corporate
culture.

NK: Like ad busting or billboard "subvertising," RTS seems to be about
taking back space, without asking permission. Is there a sense, as there is
among some North American culture jammers, that this is a necessity -- that
privatization and commercialization has become so all-encompassing that
there is no alternative?

JJ: The whole issue of 'taking back space without asking permission' is
often misunderstood as a necessity. i.e a last resort. RTS does not see
Direct Action as a last resort, but a preferred way of doing things. It
sees direct action as a corollary to direct democracy, a way for
individuals to take control of their own lives and environments. Direct
action enables people to participate in social life without mediation or
bureaucratic control of politicians. This direct unmediated way of doing
things is yet another alternative to the increasingly mediated forms of
control and power, that are developing in a globalised high-tech economy,
where choice is about the number consumer brands available and democracy
becomes yet another form of 'interactive' edu-tainment. If Global
capitalism does not manage to destroy the ecosphere and human (so called)
civilization in the next 40 years ( which seems to be the time left -
according to most scientists) and a new culture of social and ecological
justice is developed, RTS would hope that Direct Action would not stop but
continue to be a central part of a direct democratic system.

NK: Another way in which the notion of public space is colonized by the
private sphere is through the use of trademark, copyright and libel laws--
we are able to be bombarded by images in our "media environment" but
responding to those images is often considered theft or slander. The police
impounding of Evading Standards seems to be a prime example of this. Can
you elaborate on this?

JJ: Although the UK has some of the toughest libel laws in the world, we
are lucky that the corporate tactic of issuing SLAPS has not taken off as
it has in the states. The success of the McLibel case may be partly
responsible. A worrying development however, was the recent BP/Greenpeace
case. Where BP sued Greenpeace over its disruption of the Atlantic Frontier
oil fields. BP soon dropped the case (with a promise by GP that they would
no longer take direct action on BP's rigs) but a leaked letter from the UK
minister for Energy, to the oil companies showed that the government is
encouraging oil companies to take legal action against activists.

Another case, was a few months ago an animal rights campaigner was sued by
the department store John Lewis, but again the case was soon dropped. Scare
tactics work to discourage activism but don't work on already committed
activists.

The Evading Standards event was not actually linked to any corporate, libel
situation. In fact the mainstream press kept trying to get a response from
the Evening Standard, who refused to comment let alone sue. The papers were
impounded by the police - and we were charged under criminal law - for
incitement to cause affray and incitement to cause a blockage of the public
highway. Only later (once the police had actually read the paper) were we
re arrested for copyright theft of the Evening Standard Logo and the
Metropolitan Police logo. The impounding and arrests were clearly a
strategy to disrupt/intimidate us the night before a major action ( the
Dockers March For Social Justice). The fact that we were asked to return
from bail the next day (very unusual) and spent the whole day of the March
for Social Justice, in police cells, showed that they thought that by
arresting the three of us (who they wrongly assumed had been key to
organizing the action) they thought they would 'put a spanner in the
works'. They also wrongly thought the paper was a key part of our
publicity, and therefore that by impounding it, they would affect turn out.
The paper was really seen as a parallel action - a kind of textual
accompaniment to the action. Two weeks later we reprinted it and
distributed 20,000 without any intervention by the police. The police have
now gone completely quiet about the arrests and it looks like they have
dropped all the charges, we are now preparing to sue them for wrongful
arrest, wrongful imprisonment and trespass of goods.

NK: Like ad-busting, the success of RTS seems to lie, at least in part, in
the action's sense of humour and play. How big a part do these factors play
in RTS's appeal?

JJ: humour and play have always been at the core of RTS actions. This
element can be traced back to many actions on the M11 such as cheekily
climbing onto the roof of the houses of parliament, driving a mock road
through the minister of transport's house and erecting a 100 foot
scaffolding tower in a condemned street with rave music blasting out of the
top of it. RTS sees creativity and imagination as an important strategies,
not only to inspire the traditionally non-political constituencies (eg.
rave and youth culture) but also to fight the tyranny of 'rationalism'
which dominates corporate culture and economics. Corporations may have all
the power in the world, but they lack the ability to have crazy,
non-rational, creative ideas - lateral thinking and imagination are tools
which corporate culture can never really develop, despite the slick
aesthetics of advertising and the irrationality of the financial markets,
corporations are fixed in a linear strategy of growth and accumulation.
They are super tankers moving in straight lines - we are shoals of small
fish darting under the waves and changing direction with the flick of a
tail.

Infusing political action with play and pleasure enables the specialist
boundaries between social disciplines to be made fluid; it can break apart
the ritual monotony of daily life and suggest a world where the joys of
play and pleasure are reclaimed from the confines of art and childhood to
enter every living moment of everyday life. RTS events manage to inspire a
whole diversity of different communities, because of their obvious
cheekiness but also their inability to be defined as fixed specialized
forms - is a street party a political rally ? a festival ? a rave ? direct
action ? or just a bloody good party ?

NK: When is it too much fun? What I mean is, there is a debate raging among
many North American culture jammers over whether the movement has become
too trendy, with club kids wearing logo-jammed T-shirts as more of a
fashion statement than a political one. We have already seen that the youth
culture industry's appetite for the so-called cutting edge is insatiable.
Since RTS was born, in part, out of the rave scene, are you also struggling
with the ramifications of becoming too fashionable?

JJ: Capital's ability for recuperation is always astounding and RTS has
constantly drifted close to the its voracious jaws (sorry more nautical
references - but actually I am writing this on a train!!!). We have
appeared in style mags such as 'the face' and are lauded in rave mags
'mixmag' etc, we have featured in motoring programs on TV and even the
traditional left such as Arthur Scargill (Miners Leader) have sung our
praises. In this way we have had our ideas recuperated. The best
recuperation was when exactly a year after the Angel Street party,
Islington Council held their own legal street festival, complete with
sandpit etc, on the same spot. But then we recuperated or rather reclaimed
the idea of the street party itself, reclaimed from state celebrations
jubilees etc..

The street party has undoubtedly become a 'fashionable' youth culture
event. One of the problems we are constantly dealing with, and the main
reason that we don't feel like doing another street party, is that we felt
it was easy for the street party to be seen as JUST fun, just a party with
a hint of political action. It's interesting that the action which we felt
failed most was the Social Justice/Never Mind the Bollocks event - not only
did it fail in that we did not manage to carry out our main plan, but also
because a street party in Trafalgar Square, followed by newspaper front
pages with "Anarchist Riot," "Attempted Murder" etc... is not politically
effective. The rave mags may have called it the best free party since the
infamous Castle Morton rave, and a lot of the ravers had a great time, but
for RTS it did not work - it may have empowered people but did not develop
a critical/political agenda. Effective politics involve economic
disruption, personal empowerment and political education. If people think
that turning up to a street party once a year, getting out of your head and
dancing your heart out on a recapture piece of public land, is enough -
then we are failing to reach our potential.

RTS was not really born from the rave scene, in fact most of the key people
in RTS are NOT ravers - in fact one is a classically trained musician and
several other play folk music! The Rave scene latched onto what we were
doing and we saw it as a powerful dynamic force. Rave music and the
sound system only appeared at the second Street party 'Angel Islington'-
the first one only had a bike/solar powered one playing a range of music.
Music is a vital element of what we do, but it should not be just one type
of music. If the street party becomes to associated with just one form of
culture eg. ravers - then we are also failing to diversify and attract
other constituencies. All these issues are at the heart of our present
discussions and dilemmas about where to move to next. As a form, the street
party need serious consideration and transformation.

NK: Your coalition with the sacked Liverpool Dockers was really quite a
unique collision of a very new form of activism and a more traditional kind
of activism -- the labour union. Do you think we will see more such
coalitions and pairings, and if so, what do you foresee and why?

JJ: Real revolutionary social change will only happen when diverse groups
begin to work together and share basic common goals. The environmental (I
hate that word as Wendell Berry so eloquently states "The concept of
country, homeland, dwelling place becomes simplified as 'the environment' -
that is, what surrounds us. Once we see our place, our part of the world,
as surrounding us, we have already made a profound division between it and
ourselves." - so lets use the ecological movement) - sorry I digressed - --
The ecological movement is in serious need of social engagement and the
social justice/labour movement needs to imbed itself in the ecological
context. I think this coming together will be one of the major political
developments of the turn of the century. Since Rio - questions of North -
South - poverty and environment have been put on the agenda - and if one
looks around the world, one can see the two movements beginning to come
together from farmers in Kerala, India to the Zapatistas - from the anti
McDonalds campaigning to RTS and the Liverpool Dockers, one can see a
powerful convergence occurring.

The gradual awareness of the effects of Globalization, and its radical
transformation of both Northern and Southern societies, has ironically
helped bring social and ecological issue together. In their voracious
destructive and increasingly free and unhindered path to growth and profit,
Transnationals are affecting democracy, work, communities, culture and the
biosphere. Inadvertently, they have helped us see the whole problem as one
system, to connect every issue to every other issue, to not look at one
problem in isolation. We can now start to use an ecological, systemic model
to connect everything - and will be more powerful and at the same time more
diverse and localized than any transnational can imagine !!

NK: How much of the rise in direct action -- from RTS to ad busting to
anti-roads activism -- is a reaction against the failure of democracy to
provide avenues of real change. In other words, how literally should the
slogan "Never mind of ballots... Reclaim the streets!" be taken?

JJ: "The twentieth century has been characterized by three developments of
great political importance: the growth of democracy, the growth of
corporate power, and the growth of corporate propaganda as a means of
protecting corporate power against democracy" A Carey (quoted in Andy
Rowell's Green Backlash - Routledge 1996)

Direct action is a direct reaction to the death of democracy. It is a
response to the politicians who don't represent us, the governments who are
in the hands of the multinationals and the unelected bodies which rule so
many aspects of our lives, the WTO, IMF etc... Direct action wrestles power
out of their hands into the hands of those whose lands and lives are being
destroyed for profit. The direct activist does not wait for four years to
put a cross on a piece of paper, she/he does not get paralyzed by images of
the apocalypse on the TV . Direct activists recognize their alienation and
lack of power and do something about it.

Direct Activists understand that Global Free trade, TNC's and an out of
control international financial system are killing democracy and that the
only way to bring democracy back to life is to wake up from the alienated
trance of consumption and take control of as many aspects of our lives as
possible.

NK: In your opinion, are these movements primarily about providing a vibrant
underground, an alternative culture for those that want to opt out, or does
it have the potential to transform the mainstream? In other words, is this
a parallel universe or a revolutionary movement?

JJ: We HAVE to become the mainstream. It's no good just having parallel
"alternative summits", alternative this and that.... in some ways this
legitimizes the outrageous behaviour of the 'mainstream', it kind of says "
look we are very reasonable, we even allow you to have a parallel
conference in the same city at the same time as ours. Your ideas are
valid....(hushed tones) but just keep them to yourselves and over their on
the fringes of society." The present system cannot last... it will destroy
itself sooner or later, either we will be waiting in the wings to dance on
the ruins or we will actively visualize industrial collapse while imagining
and creating the future now.

NK: Related to this question, RTS uses Hakim Bey's phrase "Temporary
Autonomous Zones" to describe its street parties. How central is the idea
of transience to RTS -- is all we can home for temporary moments of true
freedom, however fleeting?

JJ: The street party does fit some of Bey's definitions of TAZ, but in one
fundamental way it fails his litmus test - it is NOT invisible, it does not
escape the eyes of the state, and can be destroyed/disrupted by the state.

The street party is only a beginning, a taster of future possibilities. To
date there have been 30 street parties all over the country, imagine that
growing to 100, imagine each one of those happening on the same day,
imagine each one lasting for days on end and growing... Imagine the street
party growing roots ... la fete permanente..

NK: A goal of many activists is to attract media attention for their cause --
to use the media as an educational tool or to fight for better and fairer
representation for their group within the media. It strikes me that RTS is
very different in this way -- that you are actively against the very fact
of constant mediation and believe that having an unmediated experience is a
victory in itself. Is this true, and if so, how does this effect your
strategy for dealing with the media?

JJ: Yes you are right about the importance of the unmediated experience.
But unfortunately we have not had a decent media strategy to go with this
philosophy. After all we are really just a bunch of unorganised, chaotic
anarchists !!! we neither ignore the media nor court it. We recognize the
limits of our own media as well as the benefits of the mass media. (the
irony being that many of us go involved with the movement because of
reading mass media articles ! ) I think the media is just one thing that
exists in the system in which we are working, inevitably we will have to
deal with it in some way, but we give it no more importance than any of the
other elements.

NK: How big a role has the Internet, email and other new technologies
played in your organization and the spreading of the RTS idea?

JJ: We run an email list and have a www site ( which never gets updated and
is frankly useless). The net has proved of great value for some aspects of
networking, and to some extent with organizing, with the use of PGP
security. When the first issue of Evading Standards was impounded, one of
the few un-impounded copies was up on McSpotlight's site within hours -
this for me was a great use of the internet.

NK: Already RTS has gone international, as did the McLibel movement. With
the proliferation of counter-summits and the like, are we seeing the
beginnings of a global resistance movement? (please excuse the hype)

JJ: Lets hope so - there's not a lot of time left.
Yours (also excuse the Hype), JJ

For More information contact: Reclaim The Streets, PO Box 9656, London N4
4JY, U.K.  Telephone: 0171 281 4621. E-mail: r...@gn.apc.org.  They have an
internet web site at: http://www.hrc.wmin.ac.uk./campaigns/rts.html

--------------------------------------------------------------
	To receive the Anarchives via email send a note to
	Majord...@tao.ca with the message in the body:
		subscribe anarchives
	To get off the list, send to the same address but write:
		unsubscribe anarchives
	    http://www.tao.ca/thunder/anarchives.html
	TAO Communications - P.O. Box 108 Station P
		Toronto Ontario Canada M5S 2S8

     ****** A-Infos News Service *****
  News about and of interest to anarchists

Subscribe -> email MAJORD...@TAO.CA
             with the message SUBSCRIBE A-INFOS
Info      -> http://www.tao.ca/ainfos/
Reproduce -> please include this section
