   _________SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE TWENTY SIX FEBRARY  2000 __________
  /         \___________________________________________/          \
 /                      ECHELON WAS MY BABY                         \
/                        Presented by: frak                          \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------



Ekstra Bladet meets former Echelon spy. In spite of illness and angst, 
she now reveals how illegal political surveillance was carried out.

LAS VEGAS (Ekstra Bladet): "Even though I felt bad about what we were 
doing, I was very pleased with the professional part of my job. I don't
mean to brag, but I was very good at what I did, and I actually felt like
Echelon was my baby."
Ekstra Bladet meets Margaret Newsham in her home in a sleepy Las Vegas
suburb. For obvious reasons we are omitting the name of the town where
Margaret Newsham is trying to lead a normal life. She has never mentioned
her past to her neighbors.
A past in which Margaret Newsham has been in close contact with the very
core of the most secretive world of all worlds.
Margaret Newsham helped build the electronic surveillance system known as
Echelon.
Today she has broken off connection with the world of espionage and lives
in constant fear that 'certain elements' in the NSA or CIA will try to
silence her. As a result, she sleeps with a loaded pistol under her mattress,
and her best friend is Mr. Gunther - a 120-pound German shepherd that was
trained to be a guard and attack dog by a good friend in the Nevada State
Police.
She sent the dog to a 'babysitter' before we arrived, since "he doesn't let
strangers come in to my house," she says with a faint smile.
Only once before has Newsham told anybody about her work as an Echelon spy:
during closed, top-secret hearings held by the US Congress in 1988. Today,
Margaret breaks eleven years of silence by telling the press for the very
first time about her work for the most extensive espionage network in the
world. Margaret Newsham decided to talk with Ekstra Bladet even though her
doctor advised her not to meet with us. "Since I have high blood pressure,
my doctor thinks it's risky for me to talk with you, but it's a chance I'm
willing to take."
DEATH SENTENCE
Newsham has gone through hell ever since she was fired from her job at
Lockheed Martin where she designed programs for Echelon's global surveillance
network. When asked to work on a project in 1984, she refused because she
believed it could harm the US government.
Shortly after, Echelon's wirepullers in the National Security Agency (NSA)
made sure that she was fired by Lockheed Martin. Immediately afterward, she
sued her former employer for wrongful dismissal and contacted the internal
security commission, DCAA, which arranged the closed hearings.
"Ever since, I have felt like I was under so much pressure that it has had
a fatal influence on my health," says Margaret Newsham, who up to now has
survived a seizure which left her totally paralyzed. All she had left was
her sense of hearing when she was admitted to the hospital.
"I could hear the doctor pronouncing my death sentence, while my husband and
three children stood by my side. The only thing that kept me going was the
thought that if I died, I would lose my case. That thought was what brought
me back to life."
After regaining her mobility, Newsham suffered a cardiac arrest, and two years
ago she underwent surgery for a malignant tumor. Today, she dryly states that
she is living on borrowed time, which perhaps explains why she chooses to stand
forward at this time.
SPYING ON POLITICIANS
"To me, there are only two issues at stake here: right or wrong. And the
longer I worked on the clandestine surveillance projects, the more I could
see that they were not only illegal, but also unconstitutional."
Margaret Newsham is not pleased with herself for participating in spying on
ordinary people, politicians, interest groups and private companies, which
is exactly what she did for 10 years, from 1974 to 1984.
Both the satellites and the computer programs were developed at Lockheed's
headquarters in Sunnyvale California, and in 1977, she was stationed at the
largest listening post in the world at Menwith Hill, England.
"On the day at Menwith Hill when I realized in earnest how utterly wrong it
was, I was sitting with one of the many "translators". He was an expert in
languages like Russian, Chinese and Japanese. Suddenly he asked me if I wanted
to listen in on a conversation taking place in the US at an office in the US
Senate Building. Then I clearly heard a southern American dialect I thought I
had heard before."
"Who is that?" I asked the translator who told me that it was Republican senator
Strom Thurmond. 'Oh my gosh!' I thought. We're not only spying on other countries,
but also on our own citizens. That's when I realized in earnest that what we were
doing had nothing to do with national security interests of the US."
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER In all its complicated simplicity, the American intelligence
agency, NSA, together with intelligence agencies in England, Canada, Australia
and New Zealand, has established a system of satellites and computer systems that
can monitor by and large all electronic communication in the world: phone
conversations, e-mails, telexes and telefaxes. A number of other countries are
affiliated as third or fourth party participants, including Denmark.
The fundamental concept of the system is to get access to all important political
movements in hostile and allied countries alike and to keep an eye on all
important economic movements. Knowledge is power, and the NSA knows it.
Furthermore, NSA's spies function as the only primary authority to supervise
who receives what information and what it is used for. "Even then, Echelon was
very big and sophisticated. As early as 1979 we could track a specific person
and zoom in on his phone conversation while he was communicating. Since our
satellites could in 1984 film a postage stamp lying on the ground, it is almost
impossible to imagine how all-encompassing the system must be today."
ECHELON WAS NSA'S IDEA
Who came up with the name Echelon?
"The NSA. Lockheed Martin's alphanumeric code was P415.
What did you actually do?
"Unfortunately, I can't tell you all my duties. I am still bound by professional
secrecy, and I would hate to go to prison or get involved in any trouble, if you
know what I mean. In general, I can tell you that I was responsible for compiling
the various systems and programs, configuring the whole thing and making it
operational on main frames [large computers, ed.]."
Which part of the system is named Echelon?
"The computer network itself. The software programs are known as SILKWORTH and
SIRE, and one of the most important surveillance satellites is named VORTEX. It
intercepts things like phone conversations."
APPROVED BY THE CIA
You worked as an agent for the NSA, but were employed by a private company?
"Yes, it is almost impossible to tell the difference between NSA agents and
civilians employed by Lockheed Martin, Ford and IBM. The borderlines are very
vague. I had one of the highest security classifications which required the approval
of the CIA, the NSA, the Navy and the Air Force. The approval included both a lie
detector test, and an expanded personal history test in which my family and
acquaintances were discretely checked by the security agency."
The sky darkens over the cascading neon lights of Las Vegas when Margaret Newsham
tells of countless infringements of security regulations and about her colleague
who suffered brain damage when she partipated in the development of the Stealth
bomber. Though Margaret Newsham is totally exhausted, she also seems relieved.
"This is the first time I have ever told anyone some of the things I told you today.
But now I want to get Mr. Gunther soon so I feel safe again. She measures her blood
pressure and looks very alarmed.
"I had better go to the doctor tomorrow morning, so maybe we should meet later on
in the day."
When she returns with Mr. Gunther an hour later, the dog inspects every room before
Margaret goes in. The last thing she does before falling asleep on her king size bed
is to check her pistol to make sure it is still loaded.
Facts: Lockheed Martin is the largest supplier of munitions to the US military services
and to their intelligence agencies, the NSA and the CIA.
During the eighties, Lockheed Martin took over LORAL Space Systems and Ford Aerospace
which also deliver monitoring equipment to the espionage agencies. Margaret Newsham
worked for the NSA through her employment at Ford and Lockheed from 1974 to 1984. In
1977 and 1978, Newsham was stationed at the largest listening post in the world at
Menwith Hill, England. She received on-the-job training at NSA headquarters at Fort
George Meade in Maryland, USA.
Ekstra Bladet has Margaret Newsham's stationing orders from the US Department of
Defense. She possessed the high security classification TOP SECRET CRYPTO.
According to information found by Ekstra Bladet in the Pentagon's databases, the NSA
had 38,613 employees in 1995. This figure does not include the many employees at
private companies who work for the NSA.
Ekstra Bladet has documented the existence of Echelon in a long series of articles
over the last months.
Denmark is affiliated with the Echelon network as a third party, and the most important
Danish listening post is located at Aflandshage on the island of Amager.
I SOLD MY LIFE TO BIG BROTHER
"Denmark's ministers can believe whatever they want to. I know Echelon exists, because
I helped make the system." For the second day running, former Echelon spy Margaret
Newsham tells about the 'Black World' of espionage - and the fatal consequences it
is had on her life. Half of her espionage colleagues are dead today.
"The surveillance was incredibly target-oriented. We were capable of singling out
an individual or organization and monitoring all electronic communication - real
time - and all the time. The person was monitored without ever having a chance to
discover it, and most of the information was sent with lightening speed to another
station using the enormous digital capacity at our command. Everything took place
without a search warrant."
Was all the information forwarded to NSA headquarters at Fort George Meade in Maryland?
"Not all of it, but quite a lot."
Does the system use programs that are capable of virtually scouring the airwaves
based on certain categories and trigger words?
"That's one of the ways it functions, yes. It's like an Internet search engine.
By restricting your search to specific numbers, persons or terms, you get results
that are all related to whatever you enter.
BREACH OF SECURITY
Ekstra Bladet meets the former surveillance spy, Margaret Newsham, in her home just
outside Las Vegas. By talking to Ekstra Bladet, she chooses to break her silence
and tell us as much as she considers to be reasonably safe. Because Newsham is
still subject to the omertà of the intelligence services. According to this stringent
code of silence, she is not allowed to reveal anything about her espionage activities
for the NSA.
"But it is hard for me to live with the fact that I sold my life and my freedom of
speech to the largest intelligence service of the US government." On the whole, it
is difficult for Margaret Newsham to lead a normal life, even though she wants to
do that most of all. In 1984, she was dismissed by Lockheed Martin, which built
espionage equipment for NSA. Ultimately, she refused to work on a project which
she felt was a security risk. She was 'terminated' as they called it - and she
sued them for wrongful dismissal.
BILLION DOLLAR SWINDLERS
"I experienced security breaches almost every day both at Lockheed's headquarters
in Sunnyvale, California and at Menwith Hill, England. Sometimes it was utterly
absurd. At a barbecue party held by colleagues from the department responsible for
developing the 'invisible' Stealth bomber, the barbecue kettle was made of the
same material that made the bomber invisible to hostile radar systems. Another
time, somebody had coffee mugs made and all of them were covered with prints of
highly classified Echelon stations. But they were also involved in actual swindling.
Lockheed Martin undercut other companies to get NSA project contracts, after which
they illegally transferred money and manpower to meet the contract. Since they
could swindle others for hundreds of millions of dollars, they were capable of
anything. That made them very deceitful, and in my eyes, they jeopardized the
security of the United States Government."
Was the US Government informed about the clandestine projects? "No. That's why
we called them 'Black Programs". The government didn't really know what was
happening or what the many billions were actually being used for. And I felt
very loyal both to the government and to the American Constitution, which was
constantly being infringed. The world of espionage was also called 'The Black
World' because most of the operations were carried out in secrecy, beyond any
control."
Since her dismissal, Margaret Newsham has been under heavy pressure, because
her case against Lockheed Martin could mean that an open court case would shed
light on the NSA's 'black projects'. Among other things, the case deals with
swindling for more than 10 billion DKK (ca. 1.4 billion USD), and for the time
being, her lawyer has provided her with legal assistance that is the equivalent
of 140 million DKK (ca. 20 million USD).
PREMATURE DEATHS
The case has had a fatal effect on her health. Since '84 she has had a seizure
that left her totally paralyzed, survived a cardiac arrest, and on top of
everything else is suffering from cancer. Today, she lives on borrowed time and
suffers from high blood pressure.
"It didn't help any when my husband asked for a divorce after I had survived
my cardiac arrest. He is chief of security at Lockheed Martin and has also been
under a lot of pressure. He was grossly harassed because of his affiliation with
me," Newsham says.
She lives alone now and has struggled to maintain contact with her three children
and six grandchildren. Today, she lives in a quiet Las Vegas suburb. Not even
her neighbors know about her past.
"NSA's activities have not only affected me, but also my former espionage
colleagues at Lockheed. Nearly half of the people I worked with on clandestine
projects are either dead or mortally ill today. For example, my former boss on
the Echelon project, Robert Looper, died prematurely of heart failure, and Kay
Nickerson, who worked on developing the Stealth bomber, died of brain damage."
But how could half of your former colleagues die prematurely? "I don't know how
to explain it, but at one point we discovered that Lockheed's headquarters in
Sunnyvale are built on top of a highly radioactive dumping ground."
What did they die of?
"Heart failure, cancer, inexplicable seizures and brain damage. Even I am going
to die of cancer before my time. But I have my lawyers, my doctor and my
children and grandchildren to support me. They are the people I am fond of."
What gives you the courage to continue?
"The fact that the NSA, CIA and NRO (National Reconnaissance Organization)
are carrying on illegal espionage against the rest of the world. They say they
are doing it to catch drug criminals, gunrunners and the like. But that doesn't
give them the right to do what they're doing. They are constantly breaking the
law."
ECHELON IN DENMARK
In Denmark, leading politicians and ministers deny any knowledge of Echelon beyond
what they read in the newspapers.
"Now they can read about me then. I am living proof of Echelon's existence. I
configured and ran a lot of Echelon's programs." Margaret Newsham shows us the
order that stationed her at Menwith Hill, the specifications for some Echelon
programs and other internal documents. We found discarded computer remnants at
the Aflandshage Listening Post in Denmark designated "VAX RED". Does that mean
anything to you? "Yes, as a matter of fact it means two things. You see, I worked
on VAX computers myself, and they were used on the Echelon project.
"The color RED probably refers to the classification level. Because the security
system is based on the fact that only very few people have an overall picture of
everything that goes on. Therefore, some employees have red tags, some purple,
some blue and so on. That means that they are only allowed to work with certain
parts of the projects, i.e. the ones that are classified under the same color. As
a result, very few employees have a complete picture of what is really going on.
Since my tag had all the colors, I had a good overview. I was also the one who
made the back-up files."
BIG BROTHER CONTROLS US
Can you understand how some people find it hard to believe that a system like
this really exists? "Yes, but it is real. We are spying on our own citizens and
the rest of the world - even our European allies. If I say 'Amnesty' or 'Margaret
Newsham', it is intercepted, analyzed, coordinated, forwarded and registered - if
it is of interest to the intelligence agencies. I spoke with a radiologist recently,
who had done exactly the same thing I had, only ten years later, in 1991, under
'Operation Desert Storm'. If only I could tell you everything, then you would
understand that Echelon is so big, it's immensity almost defies comprehension.
" Margaret Newsham does not regret that she has been a pariah in the US intelligence
community since her break with the NSA in 1984. A break that cost her her husband,
her job and her health.
Is there anything you would you have done differently?
"Not for a second. It is important for the truth to come out. I don't believe we
should put up with being controlled by 'Big Brother' in the future. But we put up
with it now."
EXTRA FACTS
For ten years, Newsham worked for the US munitions and computer firms Signal
Science, Ford Aerospace and Lockheed Martin.
They had contracts for the development and upgrading of Echelon satellites and
computers which the companies designed for the intelligence agency NSA.
The NSA cooperates closely with the CIA and NRO (National Reconnaissance Organization).
For two years, Newsham shared the responsibility for the day-to-day functioning
of Echelon's computer network at Menwith Hill, England. In classified documents,
which are in the possession of Ekstra Bladet, Menwith Hill is referred to as 'the
largest station in the service'. Denmark participates on a third-party basis in
UKUSA, an electronic surveillance agreement.
Sigint/Surveillance/Denmark
Printed sept. 27. 99:
THE MINISTER FOR THE DEFENCE ADMITS.
"Denmark participates in a global surveillance system," admitted the Minister for
the Defense Hans Hækkerup under heavy pressure.
As one of the first governments in the clandestine Western intelligence cooperation,
Hækkerup acknowledged during a joint council in the Danish Parliament's Europe
Committee last Friday that the FE (Intelligence Agency of the Danish Armed Forces)
participates in the interception of electronic communication.
Does this occur in cooperation with the NSA, which manages the so-called Echelon?
"I can't confirm that, but I can tell you that the FE has been intercepting signals
ever since the Second World War - and we're still doing it."
Can you confirm that this takes place at Aflandshage on the island of Amager?
"Yes, it does, and the facilities out there have been continuously expanded over
the years. We both collect and process information from satellites. "
Is this cooperation in compliance with the law?
"Yes, it is."
The Minister for Defense was summoned to a joint council by parliament member Keld
Albrechtsen who was quite astonished by the Minister's admissions. Up to now, the
ministries of Defense, Justice and Research have actually denied any knowledge of
the controversial global surveillance systems.
The Minister stated that such satellite systems exist and that Denmark is included
in them, but that this system is not called Echelon. He also stated that we have
the capacity to collect and exchange information with the intelligence agencies
of other countries.
Do you have any guarantee that Danish citizens are not being illegally monitored
and registered?
"No, unfortunately." He evaded the question of whether the law is obeyed in regards
to the cooperation with the secret services of other countries. So this system
provides no guarantee for the security of life and property for the ordinary citizen.
He also to refused to go into detail on the question of whether the operations occur
in cooperation with other countries. Another parliament member of the Europe
Committee, Knud Erik Hansen, asked at the meeting if the facilities also spied
on the commercial satellites, i.e. the ones that transmit signals like telephone
conversations.
He unfortunately evaded that question, too, but now the Minister for Justice must
be brought to order so he can assure us that both private and commercial
communication is not being monitored illegally.

Interview w. Duncan Campbell
THEY SPY ON ORDINARY PEOPLE
"They spy on companies and interest groups," says Duncan Campbell, who has looked
at the listening post at Aflandshage near Copenhagen in Denmark.
"The facilities at Aflandshage are hardly distinguishable from the Echelon
installation in New Zealand."
Physicist and technology expert Duncan Campbell has no doubt. Denmark is involved
in illegal surveillance together with the other primary participants in the
so-called Echelon system, the US, England, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong and New
Zealand.
"My best guess is that the facilities at Aflandshage were additionally expanded
shortly after the end of the Cold War. In 1990 or perhaps a little later."
What does that mean?
"Well it means that Aflandshage is in any case not part of NATO's defense against
Russia and the other East Bloc countries like it was before.
Everything indicates that the large parabolic antennas and accompanying buildings
are used in the same way as the facilities in the other countries: to intercept
communication from commercial satellites that transmit the phone and fax conversations
of ordinary people. And to forward the intercepted information."
BREACH OF DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES
In addition to his physics degree, Duncan Campbell is also a journalist and has
closely cooperated with a group of British women who are protesting against the
largest listening station in the Echelon system. It is located in a beautiful area
on Menwith Hill near Birmingham, England.
With the help of cunning tricks, the women have sneaked into the base more than
a hundred times and removed thousands of classified documents from the secretive
base. With the help of these papers, and from information from anonymous agents,
Campbell has acquired a unique knowledge which last year resulted in an extensive
report on the global surveillance, ordered by the European Parliament.
"The problem is that most democratic countries have laws that protect the sanctity
of private life and do not allow the lawful political activities of their citizens
to be monitored and registered. In order to monitor someone, you must have grounds
for suspicion and be authorized to do so by a judge. Echelon is a total breach of
these principles. A great number of categories are coded into the system, and under
each category there are even more code words. Many of the words are used in normal
daily conversation. Not only the rights of ordinary people are infringed;
Echelon also monitors interest groups like Amnesty International, Greenpeace and
private companies. Several examples of industrial espionage exist in which the US
intelligence service has passed on information to US companies that was intercepted
from satellites.
BREAKS THE LAW
How can you be so sure that this is possible?
I have seen the footage taken inside the systems while they were in operation.
Both from Menwith Hill, England and Waihopa, New Zealand. TV-Free from New Zealand
succeeded in filming in the Waihopa base, and the operations room was almost completely
devoid of staff. The process is totally automated and operates at lightening speed.
In addition, I also made a documentary for which we set up a tiny parabolic antenna
beside the base on Menwith Hill. The information it intercepted was unbelievable after
we positioned it to listen in on the same satellite at which the large parabolic
antennas in the base are aimed."
Isn't it reasonable that the system has the capability to monitor terrorists and
the like?
"Sure it is. But there is all the difference in the world between conventional
surveillance and monitoring and this system in which the law is consistently and
constantly being broken by the very people who should be making sure that others
obey the law. They are purely and simply exchanging information which is illegal
for the local intelligence agencies in the individual countries to collect."
Is it still called Echelon?
"The code name Echelon is only part of the entire system, and everything seems to
indicate that they have switched codes. Last I heard it was 'Magistrand'."

