                    H         I         R

           H i j i n k s   w i t h   H / P C ' s
                       By /|smodian ><

        This is my first article, so I'll begin with a bit about
my self before we get to the goodies.  I've been screwing
around with computers for about 5 years now.  So I can still
remember when windows really sucked.  Yes Windows 3.0...  I
Have a class or two with Axon, and have kept moderate tabs on
the underground for a while.  Am I a Hacker?  Not really, sure
I'm literate with unix and could probably ruin your day if I
set my mind to it.  But I dont really go out of my way to
Phuck with anybody or anything.

        But you're probably wondering What the hell can you do
with a HPC <Handheld Personal Computer>.  For starters, it
isnt very powerful, you have to wait several seconds for it
to refresh the screen <especially windows CE>.  It has next
to no Storage space and yer just phucked if it breaks.  Worse
yet, trying to get software to do shit with it.  I hope you
have a deep expense account buddy.  But it is at least an
order of magnitude cheaper than a really good laptop.  And
when yer goin fer portable, you take whatever you can get.

        What makes me an expert on this?  Nothing, I would just
like to point out a few neeto things I found you can do with
em...

        If you are fortunate, every millennia they have a sale where
they sell a palmtop for under 100$.  I bought mine for about
80$ <plus about 10$ in AA batteries and memory backup
batteries>

I have a Compaq PC Companion  2mb +

which has :
.—o—...—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—.

o 2mb of mem
o an included Pcmcia 14.4 phaxmodem
o Win CE on a ROM + stuph fer yer pc so you can dump stuph to
and from yer main pc & link up cables
o Power adapter
o IRDA IR port
o 1: Pcmcia slot
o touch screen and a stylus
o built in sound kard

.—o—...—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—..—o—.


-=- Boxing Phun -=-

At one point I had a program called Win Phreak, which
all it consisted was a Visual basic shell, with a phuck load
of Box tones like Red, blue...etc  So I dumped the Waves on
My Palmtop.  They Play ok, but I have not seen the field
results yet.

-=-Net Werking-=-

        With the assistance of an acoustic coupler and a trusty
pcmcia Modem <the speed isn't really important, usually all
you kan squeeze out of the phuckin thing is 1200 baud>.  A
Hacker would have a concealable jumping point.  The only web
schit thats out there is Internet Explorer phrum our favorite
company MicroSloth.  My suggestion though is to get either a
port of lynx, or a telnet client and a ftp client, and do it
that way cuz no matter what speed you connect, the grafucks
will slow everything down to a fuckin crawl.  Not to mention
you will run out of storage space lickity splat.

        Windows CE, of course, provides the dialup networking
shit.  But as for the rest of the shit, with exception to
MSIE CE, your on your own to find em.  All the stuph I've
seen is commercial

-=-Antidepressents-=-

        There is a freeware Chat chat program out there that
allows you and yer bud to communicate with the IR port.
Pretty kewl eh?

        Of course you can dump any BMP in the background on yer
desktop.. and phuck around with WIN CE... but really phucking
with the code is kinda hard cuz of windows being totally
rommed.  Good news is that u kan get a 99$ upgrade to windows
CE 2.0 and get 2 more megs of ram with the upgrade chip.
Whee.


-=-WISH LIST FER LEETO SOFTWARES FER HPC's-=-
o    port of internet utilities to hpc
        o FTP
        o Telnet
        o Lynx
        o Finger
        o Whois
o    Remote Control program to emulate universal remote
     Control, and remote Control jamming with IR port.
o    memory compression fer disq space


<GREETZ>
Axon, Kminor
<EOF>



