                                -=- H i R -=-
           -=- Going for the golden goose, then jacking the bean stalk -=-

                             -=- |\smodian }{ -=-

        During the recient events of the DOJ going at it one on one with
microsloth, it gave me that warm fuzz feeling.  Maybe the government isn't
so bad, maybe its found a higher purpose?  Perhaps Bill Clinton isn't such
a bad guy after all?  Perhaps the FBI and all those other three lettered
faceless government agencies are just doing their job for life liberity
and the american way. And maybe kill crazed rabid transvestite monkeys will
fly out of my ass.....
        Theres a very simple explanation for these wonderful events.
Microsoft has grown to immense porportions, they have extended their realms
into other technical areas, and have continued to grow like the weed they are.
So why is the government so excited to whip out the axe's and chop mr. Gates's
dick off.  Money of course, yup.. you thought it was some quest for the
extermination of evil... yeah right, it's more like extermination of evil, by
evil..  Well no one likes microsoft any more, just the stupid people.  So
some enterprising dick who needs to be re-elected so he/she/it can mooch
some more dough from the tax payers.  "Wow!" he/she/it thinks.  "If I were
to beat the crap out of Mr. Gates, all those anti microsoft people would just
love me!"  And, im sure there would be a big reward waiting for me at
NetScape.  Shoot, it would be like trick or treating for campaign funds in
silicon valley. 5 G's from Geo's, 10 G's from Sun... shit I could profit
from this.  From this point everybody knows that if a polititian really wants
to fuxor some one, they find a way.  Now of course all the polititians jump
in the band wagon at once so that one persons dream of mooching money has
proabably been lost by now.  But you get the point right?
        The moral of this editorial is that if a person makes a big pile of
money, some one will find a way to get more than his/hers/its fair share of
the booty.  Once microsoft saw the Doj sharpining their axes, they should
have split up the company and run while they still had profit.  As it was
bill just hired a lawyer <a bad move> and going to court <worse move.> Who
is wining so far... Gates lawyer, and the government... for gates will never
win when he's up to his neck in americas oldest mafia.

