


	   Call and Response Telephone Compilations (CRTC)

		   issue 3, volume 2, November 2001

			 
		       'Trust Your Technolust'

 ;-`
 # Staff:
 * Editor-In-Chief - The Clone
 * Contribution - Alan, Flopik, Magma, 
                  phlux, RT, The Clone

 # Contact:
 * E-mail: theclone@hackcanada.com
 * IRC: irc.2600.net (#cpu / #hackcanada)
 * Web-Site: www.nettwerked.net/cpu
 '-;

 ;-'
  # Content:

  * 'A Brief Introduction' [ The Clone ]

  *  'The New AT&T Network' [Lucky225]

  *  'An Introduction to Telus' Terminating Test Lines' [The Clone]

  *  'A Mobile Phone ANI-Diversion Technique' [The Clone]

  *  '800-855-XXXX Assignment Guidelines' [Anonymous]

  # Other Stuff:

  * The Canadian Scene - NOW

  * Reader Feedback

 '-;

 You are currently reading the third issue of CRTC... Congratulations.
 Prepare yourselves for a monthly compilation of 100% telecom information.
 CRTC is accepting all telecom related information - whether you're in western
 or eastern Canada, USA, or anywhere else in the world, we will add your article
 after it meets certain criteria.


 Certain Criteria: 1. Article must be original; written by you,
		      or you and another writer.

		   2. Article must be telecom related.

	   	   3. Article must be proof-read before sent to me.


 Where to send articles:

 SEND ALL ARTICLES TO: theclone@hackcanada.com

 We will contact you if we decide to put your article in upcoming CRTC issues.

 (Note: please e-mail your articles in plain text format *ONLY*)

 -

 				
				The New AT&T Network

 By: Lucky225

It seems that AT&T was not to fond of my ANI Spoofing article that appeared in 2600 (17:4)
Just a few days after I picked up a copy of the new 2600 and saw that my article had been
printed, I started noticing a lot of changes in the AT&T network. First they shut off
their 800 ANAC, a few days later calls that were routed to 800-673-7286 by the Verizon
Long Distance operator were handled strangely. I began noticing that if I made a call
through the Verizon Long Distance operator to 800-673-7286, I could place calls to 800 
numbers NOT on the AT&T network, but that the ANI was being sent as '615-986-9873' or
ANI II Pair 23 followed by areacode 904. Thus, calls placed through the Verizon Long 
Distance operator to AT&T's 800-operator could not be used to spoof ANI any more. The
615 number belongs to a PBX owned by AT&T in Nashville, TN. I could still spoof ANI
on the AT&T network if I diverted through my local operator or various other 101XXX 
long distance carrier operators, but this April it stopped working. I soon figured out
what was happening. AT&T has centers all around the country including Alaska and Hawaii.
The way SS7 works, depending on where your calling from, an 800 number can be routed to 
various other places. For example their could be a nationwide 800 number that alows you
to call from any where in the country, but say a person that calls the same 800 number
from Florida could get routed to that business's office on the east coast, and a person
that calls from California may get routed to the west coast office.  That's what it's like
when you call 800-673-7286, you get routed to the nearest AT&T center near you to take the 
call. So when I was making a call through the Verizon Long Distance operator to 800 673 7286
I would get routed to the Florida AT&T center because the Verizon Long Distance operator
I got was based out of Florida(813), which is why when I had the AT&T operator dial an ANAC
it would show 23-904(Florida). However, not all Verizon Long Distance operators are based
in Florida, some of them are based out of Kentucky(606) which for whatever reason will
get you the Nashville, TN Center.  The Nashville Center is the only center I have seen
so far that transmits ANI with ANI II Pair "00" and a full 10 digit phone number(615-986-9873)

The AT&T Centers:
As I mentioned, there are various AT&T centers throughout the country, and they are also
the centers that handle the automated AT&T Long Distance operator services as well as
800-call-att and 800-operator.  With the new upgrade that AT&T is implementing (wide spread
across the country I preditct by now) each center is geting a total make over, there will
be no more ANI spoofing to AT&T numbers, they are updating these centers so that you can
call any 800 number through the AT&T carrier.  Calls to 800 673 7286 that have an ANI fail
will no longer use the phone number you give as ANI when calling other toll free numbers.
Instead, ANI II pair 23 and the areacode of the AT&T center will be used.  However, the
best part is that you can place calls to toll free numbers without speaking to an operator.
Simply dial 10-10-ATT-0(10-10-288-0) and enter the toll free number you want to call.
The ANI will show up as ANI II pair 23 and the areacode of the AT&T Center, op diverting
without even having to speak to the op!  However you will notice that if you try
to dial 800-call-att or 800-673-7286 it will apear that your ANI still shows up, this is
because these numbers are handled by the same AT&T center.  However any toll-free number
not handled by the AT&T center(basically any toll-free number that's not used for AT&T 
operator services) will be processed with your ANI not being transmited.  
There are a few advantages and disadvantages of this new system.  The only real disadvantage
is that you can not spoof ANI any more.  The advantages however are that you can place
calls to basically any toll free number you wish without your ANI being passed simply
by dialing 10-10-ATT-0 and then pressing in the toll free number you want to call at the
AT&T prompt.  You can even use this at payphones to call toll free numbers that don't
allow payphone calls or to get around payphone surcharges.  Op diverting used to be
so hard, local ops not wanting to help you out, and 101XXX carrier ops only being
able to be reached from certain parts of the country, and the real downside being
that you had to talk to an operator, that by the way might listen in to your call, when 
trying to divert to toll free numbers, but now thanks to AT&T's new network that you
can reach anywhere in the country by simply dialing 10-10-288-0 or even just 00 if you
have AT&T, and you dont even have to talk to an operator you just punch in the toll
free number you want to call on your touch tone keypad.  You can even divert to that
toll-free number using your modem to find out what that carrier is you always wanted to know
is by setting your modem to dial 10-10-288-0, 1-800-xxx-xxxx, without fear of your ANI
showing up.  I'm sure AT&T logs your ANI and probably would take action if you
were harassing a toll-free number long enough, but for now you can think of 10-10-288-0
as your own free ANI blocking service.

--




				  'An Introduction to Telus' Terminating Test Lines'



 < Written by: The Clone
 < Date: Tuesday, November 6, 2001

 (Updated: Thursday, November 8, 2001)

 --
 InDEX;

 * Disclaimer

 * Definition

 * Introduction

 * Default Prefixes

 * Additional Terminating Test Lines

 * Other Test Numbers

 * Conclusion

 * Credit

 * Contact Information

 * Shout-Outs

 --

 Disclaimer: The content within this file is for informational and
             entertainment purposes only. Unauthorized access of the
             test systems spoken about in this file may get you in
             trouble with local and/or national law enforcement.
             By reading this, you agree not to try any of this.


 Definition: "Test numbers are dialups to testing equipment or test
              features set up by the phone company or private entities."



 Introduction:

 Back in early 1999 when the 403/780 area code split went on, Telus decided to
 set up a series of test numbers called "Alberta Terminating Test Lines" in the
 403 and 780 area codes. Since the split affected millions of landline/cellular
 customers, Telus thought that permissive phone numbers would be the best way to
 keep the information flowing between employees. Alberta Terminating Test Lines
 gave Telus tech's the ability to call up a private number and leave detailed
 messages regarding any technical issues (problems) that may have arised with
 780 to 403 (and 403 to 780) long distance call routing.

 To this day, Telus still uses Terminating Test Lines as a way for local and long-
 distance carriers to communicate. By dialing up the specific number, you will be
 greeted by an automated female voice; "You have reached an Alberta 780 Terminating
 Test Line", followed by an Octel system voice telling you that you either have
 messages waiting (which it then plays it for you), or it'll tell you: "No messages
 are waiting. Please try again later. Thank you. Good-bye."


 Default Prefixes:

 These prefixes are in the 780 area code only. If you have a list of Alberta Terminating
 Test Line prefixes the in 403 area code, please pass them on and I'll add them to this
 particular listing. More prefixes are being added as more Terminating Test Line numbers
 are discovered.

 Prefixes; 

 ` 423-XXXX
 ` 425-XXXX
 ` 428-XXXX
 ` 429-XXXX
 ` 455-XXXX
 ` 459-XXXX

 --

 Additional Terminating Test Lines:

 British Columbia;
 
 (604/778), Overlay: NPA 778 introduced for service on 11/03/01.

 ` 778-510-XXXX (Call-Net Communications, Southwestern B.C.)
 ` 778-610-XXXX (Telus, Southwestern B.C.)
 ` 778-810-XXXX (AT&T Canada, Southwestern B.C.)
 `
 Ontario:

 (905/289), Overlay: NPA 289 introduced for service on 06/09/01.

 ` 289-210-8378 (Bell Canada, Southern Ont.)
 ` 289-510-8378 (Call-Net, Southern Ont.)
 ` 289-810-8378 (AT&T Canada, Southern Ont.)  


 Other Test Numbers:

 [Taken from "ALT.PHREAKING FAQ 1.41", http://members.tripod.com/~SeusslyOne] 

 1004 hz test tone - This is a vanilla 1004 hz tone. Nothing too useful here,
                      without a loop analyser anyway. 

 ANAC - This test dial up will read off the number of the line you’re calling from.
        On rare occasions you will find ANACs with a DTMF response for use with remote
        test terminals.

 DATUs - DATUs (Digital Audio Test Units) are a godsend to technicians and phone phreaks
         everywhere. DATUs allow a caller to monitor lines (don't get too excited), open
         and short pairs, and put trace tones on the pair. While it might not sound too
         exciting, it has more applications than most people think. 

 Loops - These numbers exist in linked pairs. Call one number and you’ll get a tone.
         Call the other number and you get dead silence. If both are called at the same
         time they make a connection. It used to be that you could then talk over this
         connection, but now there are filters that block speech placed on most loops. 

 Ringback - Calls back the originating number in an annoying fashion. Dialing all the
            touch-tone digits in order (starting with 1 and ending in # going across
            the keypad rows) will generate 2 tones saying the keypad is ok. 

 Milliwatt test - These are 1004 hz tones sent out at 0 db. Milliwatt tests are used to
                  check for line loss and other complex tests. 

 Sweep Tones - Tone sweeps are a test tone ranging from 304hz to 3204hz. A common use
               for sweep tones is to check for infinity-transmitter style taps. Dial up
               a sweep tone. If an audible clicking is heard during the sweep then a
               transmitter could be installed on your line. Telco maintenance uses sweep
               tones to check for the presence of loading coils, and other such nasties
               that eat high frequency tones in order to qualify a line for high speed
               services. 

 Quiet termination - This feature connects the caller to a port with fixed resistance,
                     600 ohms or 900 ohms being the most common. There should be nothing
                     but dead silence on connection. Clicks, static or crosstalk will be
                     clearly evident if a noisy line is used to dial this test. 

 -

 Conclusion;

 I hope this paper was of interest and of benefit to you. Test numbers are quite interesting
 little toys to play around with, while travelling through the land of the telephone system.
 One never knows what they can find until they start actually taking the time to hand-scan...
 (see: http://www.nettwerked.net/files.html | "Scanning (Manual)"). Peace out!

 -

 Credit:

 Thanks to Phlux for the additional input.
 Support Phlux's HASH project (http://www.hackcanada.com/hash.txt).

 -

 Contact Information:

   E-MAIL: theclone@hackcanada.com
      IRC: irc.2600.net (#hackcanada, #cpu)
      URL: www.nettwerked.net

 -

	 Shout-Outs:

       Hack Canada (#hackcanada / www.hackcanada.com),
       Canadian Phreakers Union (#cpu / www.nettwerked.net/cpu),
       CYB0RG/ASM, H410g3n, Phlux, Alan, Seuss, Lucky225.

 .END.

--


                     . A Mobile Phone ANI-Diversion Technique .


  Date: Monday, October 29, 2001
  Author: The Clone


    [ inDEX ]

    . - Disclaimer

    . - Introduction

    . - Explanation

    . - Conclusion

    . - Credit

    . - Contact Information


  -_-


 Disclaimer: The content within this file is for informational and
             entertainment purposes only. Unauthorized access of the
             systems spoken about in this file using this ANI-spoofing
             technique may get you in trouble with local and/or national
             law enforcement. Don't do naughty things... thanks.

 -

  Introduction:

   Several months ago while sitting at home having nothing better to do but
   mess around with various phone numbers on my cell phone, I discovered
   something rather interesting. By calling up specific toll-free ANAC systems
   in the United States belonging to AT&T and other carriers, the Automatic
   Number Identification (ANI) information that I was read was completely
   different than the information that actually belongs to me. This got me a
   bit curious as to why this might be occurring. The rest of this file will
   delve a little bit into the steps I took in order to conclude the theory of
   my misread ANI account data.


  Explanation:

   With my Pre-Paid FIDO GSM phone calling from the 780 area code in Edmonton,
   I called up several ANAC systems and on every one of these systems the ANI
   information read back was: 780-707-0000, which didn't appear to be my phone
   number. After calling that phone number back, I was suprised that FIDO's
   "this number is not in service" recording came on.

   When calling from a Rogers AT&T Pay-As-You-Go TDMA cellphone, the ANI
   information read back was: 780-965-0000, which didn't appear to be my phone
   number either. After calling that phone number back, I got a similar
   message from ROGERS AT&T telling me the number I called was not in service.

   When calling from a Telus / Clearnet CDMA cellphone, the ANI information
   read back was: 780-427-5700, which didn't appear to be my phone number
   either. After calling that number back, I got a message from Telus telling
   me the number I called wasn't in service.

   The Potential? By simply using a cell phone without any physical/mode
   modification whatsoever, one may spoof their ANI information from American
   Toll-free Carriers such as; AT&T, MCI WORLDCOM, TRACFONE, VERIZON, etc.
   With your actual phone number information not being registered with the
   end-carrier, you have the ability to bruteforce a large number of the
   blocked carriers without fear of being tracked - perfect diversion
   techniques. If one wanted to call in a bomb threat, they could get away
   with it. If someone wanted to prank call, harrass, or otherwise piss
   someone off over the phone without fear of being tracked (through basic means),
   they could.

   Want an ANAC # to test your cell phone on?
   http://groups.google.com/groups?q=ANAC+%23%27s


  Conclusion:

  Instead of your phone's MIN (MSISDN in GSM terms) passing through to the end-
  carrier, the information passing through is that of the mobile switches' 
  aliased phone number - often called "pseudo ANI". Please keep in mind that the
  MSSC (Mobile Services Switching Center, Home Location Register in GSM terms)
  do keep records of what customers ESN/MIN called what phone number at any given
  time. Please be aware of the consequences, and DO USE other diversion techniques
  in addition to this if you wish to be 100% anonymous in all of your future
  phreaking escapades!
  

  Credit: 
   
   Thanks to 'TRON' for the additional information.


  Contact Information:

   E-MAIL: theclone@hackcanada.com
      URL: www.nettwerked.net

--



		              '800-855-XXXX Assignment Guidelines'


   Date: Tuesday, November 13, 2001
   By: Anonymous

   -

  index;

      *	PURPOSE AND SCOPE

      * ASSUMPTIONS AND CONSTRAINTS

      * ASSIGNMENT PRINCIPLES

      * CRITERIA FOR ASSIGNMENT

      * RESPONSIBILITIES OF CODE APPLICANTS AND HOLDERS

      * RESPONSIBILITIES OF NUMBER ADMINISTRATOR

      * RECLAMATION PROCEDURES

      * NUMBER CONSERVATION

      * MAINTENANCE OF GUIDELINES

      * APPEALS PROCESS

      * GLOSSARY


[-']


  Purpose and Scope

   This document specifies guidelines for the assignment of line numbers within the
   800-855-XXXX resource, hereafter called 800-855 numbers, which will only be used
   for the purpose of accessing public services on the Public Switched Telephone
   Network (PSTN) intended for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired.


 1.1  For the purposes of these guidelines services for the deaf, hard of hearing or
      speech impaired will be defined as those which are used generally to benefit
      this particular user community, e.g., services used by deaf, hard of hearing
      or speech impaired persons to access a Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS),
      Message Relay Service (MRS) or any other entity via text telephone service (TTY).
   
 1.2  These guidelines were developed by industry consensus process under the auspices
      of the Industry Numbering Committee (INC). These guidelines are expected to apply
      throughout the NANP Area unless the affected administrations direct otherwise.

 1.3  These guidelines do not supersede controlling appropriate NANP Area governmental
      or regulatory principles, procedures and requirements.

 2.0  Assumptions and Constraints
      
      The development of these guidelines include the following assumptions and constraints:

 2.1  NANP resources, including those covered in these guidelines, are collectively managed
      by the North American Telecommunications industry with oversight of the North American
      federal regulatory authorities.

      The NANP resources are considered a public resource and are not owned by the assignees.
      Consequently, the resources cannot be sold, brokered, bartered, or leased by the assignee
      for a fee or other consideration.

      If a resource is sold, brokered, bartered, or leased for a fee, the resource is subject to
      reclamation by the Administrator.

 2.2  To provide control over the 800-855 number assignment and to guarantee, to the extent possible,
      the dedicated use of 800-855 numbers according to these guidelines, the 800-855 numbers will
      remain unavailable for normal assignment or reservation through the 800/SMS system.

 2.3  The 800-855 resource shall be assigned to permit the most effective and efficient use of a
      finite numbering resource.  As such, periodic audits of an applicant's use of assigned 855
      numbers will be performed by the number administrator to ensure compliance with these guidelines.

 2.4  800-855 numbers will be assigned by North American Numbering Plan administration (NANPA), acting
      as the number administrator, according to the criteria specified in these guidelines.

 2.5  The holder/applicant of the 800-855 number must be licensed or certified to operate in the area,
      if required, and must demonstrate that all applicable regulatory authority required to provide
      services for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired has been obtained.

 2.6  The guidelines should provide the greatest latitude in the provision of public telecommunications
      services for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired while managing a finite resource.

 2.7  These guidelines treat only the assignment of 800-855 numbers and not their implementation,
      which is beyond the scope of these guidelines.

 2.8  The assignment of 800-855 numbers for the purposes as set forth in these guidelines shall remain
      in effect until there is industry consensus and/or regulatory policy direction to change these
      assignment guidelines.

 2.9  The administrative assignment of the 800-855 number, as a public resource, does not imply
      ownership of the resource by the entity performing the administrative function, nor does it
      imply ownership by the entity to which it is assigned.

 3.0  Assignment Principles

      The following assignment principles apply to all aspects of the
      "800-855 Number Assignment Guidelines":

 3.1  800-855 numbers shall be assigned in a fair, timely and impartial manner to any applicant
      which meets the criteria as described in Section 4.

 3.2  The 800-855 numbers shall be assigned only for the use in providing telecommunications
      services that are intended to benefit the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired
      (see Section 4.1.1).

 3.3  Applicants for 800-855 numbers must comply with all applicable local governmental, state,
      provincial, federal and the NANP Area governmental regulations relative to the services
      for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired they wish to provide.

 3.4  800-855 numbers are a finite resource and should be used in the most effective and efficient
      manner possible. Applicants may be required to provide technical or other information,
      as specified in these guidelines, to demonstrate a need for a number assignment.
  
 3.5  Applicants for 800-855 numbers will be required to certify that the service for which a number
      is being requested will be used to provide services for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech
      impaired.

 3.6  Information that is requested of applicants in support of an 800-855 number assignment shall
      be uniform and kept to a minimum. Information received by the administrator shall be treated
      as confidential and adequately safeguarded.

 3.7  Any entity who is denied the assignment of one or more 800-855 numbers, under these guidelines,
      has the right to appeal that decision as described in Section 9.

 3.8  Assignments will be on a first come, first served basis and there will be no reservation of
      800-855 numbers except as noted in Section 4.4.
  
 3.9  800-855 numbers will be assigned from the available pool of unassigned numbers. However,
      the administrator shall attempt to match a number assignment with a specific number request.

 3.10 These guidelines do not impose a limit on the total number of 800-855 numbers that may be
      assigned to each entity, provided that the numbers already assigned are activated as specified
      in these guidelines.

 4.0  Criteria for Assignment

      The assignment criteria in the following sections shall be used in reviewing an 800-855 number
      assignment request:

 4.1  In order to obtain an 800-855 number, the applicant must complete and sign the "800-855 Number
      Request Form" (see Attachment A). The applicant must certify that it will be providing services
      to deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired individuals and that it has secured the authorization,
      if necessary, from the federal, state, provincial or other regulatory body within  the NANP Area
      in which it intends to provide these services.  In addition, the applicant shall provide:

4.1.1 A general description of the planned service. Acceptable uses for this resource could include
      but are not limited to: operator services for the deaf, hearing or speech impaired (i.e.,
      operator services accessible to text telephones (TTYs), access to TRS centers or use by customers
      providing services which communicate directly with TTYs, e.g., a catalog sales operation which
      desires to offer a specific 800 number for sales/customer service for TTY users.

4.1.2 A list of current 800-855 numbers assigned to the applicant, if any, and a certification they all
      are in service and the applicant's previously assigned number(s) cannot be used for this request.

4.1.3 Certify the assigned 800-855 number will be activated within 12 months after assignment.
      See Section 7.

4.1.4 Certify that the applicant is licensed or certified to operate in the area, if required, and
      demonstrate that all applicable regulatory authority required to provide the service for which
      the 800-855 number is required has been obtained.

  4.2 An 800-855 number will be assigned to an applicant who plans on activating the number within
      12 months after assignment. If the number holder can demonstrate that the number has not been
      activated solely due to delays beyond their control, up to a 12 month extension will be granted
      for the following purposes (See Section 7):

      (a) Trigger follow-up by the number administrator.
      (b) Provide a target time frame for number activation.
      (c) Provide a basis for number resource conservation, i.e., reclamation.

  4.3 800-855 numbers shall be assigned on a first come, first served basis and each applicant
      requesting a number will be assigned a unique number.

  4.4 Advance number reservation is not recommended. Consideration by the number administrator for
      number reservation will be made, however, if the applicant can demonstrate that it is essential
      to accommodate technical or planning constraints that could limit an effective service offering.
      The number administrator will try to satisfy such requests but cannot guarantee specific requests
      will be satisfied.

4.4.1 Numbers will be reserved, when appropriate, for a maximum period of 3 months.

4.4.2 No reservations will be made unless the applicant has met the criteria for number assignment
      as specified in these guidelines.

4.4.3 If the number has not been activated solely due to technical constraints, the reservation will
      be extended until the constraint is no longer present.

4.4.4 Any number reservation(s) is subject to assignment to another qualifying requester in the
      circumstance where no other 800-855 numbers exist.

  4.5 The applicant's preference for a specific 800-855 number will be honored to the extent possible.
      The applicant may specify up to three alternative numbers in order of preference. If the preferred
      and alternatives are not available, or the applicant does not indicate a preference for another
      specific number, the number administrator will assign a number on a random basis.

  4.6 If two applicants request the same 800-855 number simultaneously, (i.e., their written requests
      are received by the number administrator with the same date stamp) one of the applicants will be
      randomly selected to receive the number.

  4.7 If after an 800-855 number is in service and there is no apparent usage (i.e., zero minutes of usage)
      over 6 consecutive months, the number administrator will initiate the reclamation process (See Section
      7).

  4.8 An 800-855 number assignment is not permanently allocated to an applicant and no property right is
      implied or intended with respect to the assigned number.

  5.0 Responsibilities of Code Applicants and Holders

      All 800 numbers are provided in SMS/800. Therefore, the code applicant/holder must be a Responsible
      Organization (RESP ORG) or have a business relationship with a Responsible Organization. Entities
      requesting new 800-855 numbers as well as entities already assigned or holding 800-855 numbers shall
      comply with the following:

  5.1 800-855 number applicants shall request from the number administrator information associated with
      the assignment of 800-855 numbers, including a current copy of the "800-855 Number Assignment
      Guidelines".

  5.2 The 800-855 number holder is responsible for meeting all conditions of these guidelines including
      the following:
	
5.2.1 Certify that the use of the number is consistent with criteria in Section 4, i.e., services for
      the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired.

5.2.2 Certify that the required regulatory authorization has been obtained for which the 800-855 number
      is being requested.

5.2.3 Agree to abide by code conservation and reclamation practices as specified in Sections 7 and 8.

  5.3 The application process for 800-855 numbers assignments shall include the following:

5.3.1 Applicants shall apply to the number administrator for a number assignment by submitting a signed
      "800-855 Number Request Form" with all sections completed to the best of the applicant's ability.  

5.3.2 Applicants shall send one form per 800-855 number request to the number administrator as follows:

	Director-NANP Administration
	1133 15th Street, NW
	12th Floor
	Washington, DC  20005
	Phone:  202-756-5796
	FAX:  202-887-0331
	Web Site:  www.nanpa.com


 5.4  Ongoing 800-855 number holders responsibilities shall include the following:

5.4.1 The information associated with a number assignment may change over time.
      Such changes may occur because of the transfer of a number, through merger or acquisition,
      to a different company.  The number holder must inform the number administrator of these changes,
      in writing, to ensure that an accurate record of the entity responsible for the number and the data
      associated with the number is maintained.  

5.4.2 The holder of an 800-855 number acquired by merger, acquisition or other means must use the number
      consistent with these guidelines.

5.4.3 An 800-855 holder must participate in the audit process (see Section 8.1).
      Failure to participate in an audit shall preclude the assignment of additional 800-855 numbers,
      may trigger other corrective action, and will be considered as having failed an audit.

5.4.4 An 800-855 number assigned to an entity, either directly by the number administrator or through
      transfer from another entity, should be placed in service within 12 months after the number is
      obtained. If the assignee or holder no longer has a need for the number, the number should be
      returned to the number administrator for reassignment. See Section 7.

5.4.5 If it is determined through the audit process or other means that a number is not in use 12
      months after assignment or transfer, or is not used in accordance with the Guidelines as
      determined by the number administrator, the number administrator will request the return
      of the number. See Section 7.

  5.5 If a service provider goes out of business or is no longer providing the services for
      which the 800-855 number was assigned, the number must be returned to the number administrator
      for reassignment. See Section 7.

  6.0 Responsibilities of Number Administrator

      The 800-855 number administrator shall perform the following functions:

  6.1 Provide copies of the 800-855 Number Assignment Guidelines when requested by applicants,
      including timely notification of changes and provide assistance in the number application
      process.

  6.2 Respond in writing within 10 working days from the date of receipt of an application either
      by requesting more information or approving or denying the applicant's request.

6.2.1 In cases where a number request is denied, identify specific reasons for the denial, and
      refer the applicant to the Appeals Process, Section 10, of the guidelines.

  6.3 Track the receipt of number requests and assign 800-855 numbers on a first come, first
      served basis using the criteria in Section 4.

  6.4 Upon receipt of the request form (Attachment A), determine if the request is in compliance
      with number assignment principles and criteria as set forth in these guidelines and, if
      appropriate, determine the number to be assigned.

6.4.1 Based on the availability of numbers, attempt to assign the preferred number as requested
      by the applicant.

  6.5 Treat information supplied by the applicant as confidential and do not disclose that
      information to any unauthorized personnel.

  6.6 After assignment of an 800-855 number, advise NASC of the assignment and request that
      NASC associate the 800-855 number assigned with the appropriate RESP ORG (most often the
      entity requesting the assignment). The information provided to NASC should include, at
      a minimum, the RESP ORG contact name, telephone number and their identification number,
      if available.

  6.7 Maintain, update and make available upon request records on 800-855 number assignments
      and resource availability.

  6.8 Conduct periodic audits of number holders/applicants to determine if the numbers are
      being used in accordance with the guidelines and if number conservation procedures are
      being followed, see Section 8,  Number Conservation.

  6.9 In cases of inappropriate use of 800-855 numbers according to these guidelines, where
      reclamation of numbers might be appropriate, see Section 7.

 6.10 Upon return of a number, the number administrator will notify NASC.

 6.11 Perform the code reclamation procedures as outlined in Section 7, as needed.

  7.0 Reclamation Procedures

  7.1 Assignee Responsibility

      The entity to which a 800 855 number(s) has been assigned shall return the 800 855
      number(s) to its administrator if:

   * It is no longer needed by the entity for the purpose for which it was originally assigned
   * The service it was assigned for is discontinued, or
   * The 800 855 number(s) was not activated by the INC-established activation date.

  In the latter case, the assignee may apply to the administrator for an extension date.
  Such an extension request must include the reason for the delay and a new activation time
  commitment.

   7.2 Administrator Responsibility

	* The 800 855 number administrator will contact any 800 855 number assignee(s)
          identified as not having returned to the administrator for reassignment of
          any 800 855 number(s):

	  - Assigned, but no longer in use by the assignee(s),
	  - Assigned to a service no longer offered,
	  - Assigned, but not activated by the INC-established date, or
	  - Assigned but not used in conformance with these assignment guidelines.

  The administrator will seek clarification from the assignee(s) regarding the alleged
  non-use or misuse. If the assignee(s) provides an explanation satisfactory to the administrator,
  and in conformance with these assignment guidelines the 800 855 number(s) will remain assigned.

  If no satisfactory explanation is provided, the administrator will request a letter from the
  assignee(s) returning the assigned 800 855 number(s). If a direct contact can not be made with
  the assignee(s) to effect the above process a registered letter will be sent to the assignee(s)
  address of record requesting that they contact the administrator within 30 days regarding the
  alleged 800 855 number(s) non-use or misuse. If the letter is returned as non-delivered the
  administrator will advise the INC that the 800 855 number(s) will be made available for re-
  assignment following the established idle period, if any unless the INC advises otherwise
  within 30 days.

        * The 800 855 number administrator will refer to the INC for resolution any instance
          where a 800 855 number(s) has not been returned for reassignment by the assignee if:

	 - The 800 855 number(s) has not been activated by the INC established date.
	 - A previously activated 800 855 number is not now in use.
	 - An activated 800 855 number(s) is not being used in accordance with these
           assignment guidelines.

	* If a 800 855 number is not activated by the INC-established date and the administrator
          determines, by discussion with the 800 855 number assignee(s), that the reason for the
          non-activation is not within the control of the assignee(s), the administrator may
          extend the INC-established activation date by up to 90 days.

	* The 800 855 number administrator will receive, process and refer to the INC for
          resolution any application from 800 855 number(s) assignees for an extension on
          an INC-established 800 855 number activation date when the:

	 - Activation has not occurred within the 90 day extension,
	 - Administrator believes that the activation has not occurred due to reason
           within the assignee's control, or
	 - Assignee requests an extension in excess of 90 days.

   Referral to INC will include the offered reason why the extension is requested,
   a new proposed activation date, and the administrator's recommended action.

   The 800 855 administrator will make all returned resources available for assignment
   following the established idle time, if any.

  7.3 INC Responsibilities

  The INC will:

   - Accept all referrals of alleged non-use or misuse of 800 855 number(s) from the
     resource administrator or any other entity, by referring issues to the Resource
     Management Workshop
   
   - Investigate the referral,
   
   - Review referrals in the context of these assignment guidelines,

   - Attempt to resolve the referral, and

   - Direct the 800 855 number administrator regarding the action, if any, to be taken.

   Absent a consensus resolution of the referral or non compliance to the resolution
   by the 800 855 assignee, the case will be referred by INC via the CLC process, to
   the appropriate regulatory body for resolution.

  8.0 Number Conservation
    
      The assignment of 800-855 numbering resources in NANP Area is undertaken with
      the following conservation objectives:

   a) To efficiently and effectively administer/manage a limited NANP resource through
      conservation.

   b) To delay the eventual exhaust of the 800-855 number resource.


  8.1 The number administrator will track and monitor 800-855 number assignments.
      Ongoing practices which foster conservation shall include the following:

8.1.1 The number administrator may conduct periodic audits of 800-855 numbers assigned
      to verify their use is consistent with these guidelines, e.g., 800-855 should not
      support regular voice communications, rather they should permit communications only
      intended for the deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired. In the periodic audits,
      the number administrator will expect to review at least the following information
      to demonstrate the 800-855 numbers are being used properly:

     -	Use of the number for hearing or speech impaired services.
     -	The activation date of each assigned number.
     -	In-service status of an 800-855 number.


  8.2 Audit results may be used to accomplish the following:

8.2.1 Identify and recommend to the appropriate organization, i.e., Industry Numbering
      Committee (INC), specific corrective actions that may be necessary, e.g.,
      modifications to the 800-855 guidelines.

8.2.2 Return of an 800-855 number (either voluntarily or by the appropriate regulatory action).

8.2.3 Assignment of a denied number request.

  9.0 Maintenance of Guidelines

      It may be necessary to modify these assignment guidelines periodically to meet
      changing circumstances. The INC is currently the group responsible for reviewing
      and concurring on any modifications to these guidelines.  Recommended changes or
      modifications to the guidelines should be referred to the INC.

 10.0 Appeals Process

 10.1 Disagreements may arise between the number administrator and 800-855 number
      holders/applicants in the context of the administration of these guidelines.
      In all cases, the number administrator and 800-855 number holders/applicants
      will make reasonable, good faith efforts to resolve such disagreements consistent
      with the guidelines prior to pursuing any appeal.

10.2  Appeals of a number request denial may include but are not limited to one or more
      of the following options:

    * The 800-855 number holder/applicant will have the opportunity to resubmit the
      matter to the number administrator for reconsideration with or without additional
      input.

    * Guidelines interpretation/clarification questions may be referred to the INC.
      Unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties, these questions will be
      submitted in a generic manner protecting the identity of the appellant.

     * The 800-855 number holder/applicant may pursue the disagreement with the
       appropriate governmental/regulatory body.

     * Requests for modification of the guidelines can be pursued as described in
       Section 9 of the guidelines.

11.0  Glossary

      Certify * When used by the applicant): As part of the 800-855 Assignment request,
                to confirm, through a formal statement signed by the applicant or an
                authorized representative, that the information contained within the
                assignment request is true, accurate, and complete to the best of his/her
                knowledge. (When used by the regulator): Where applicable, to authorize,
                in writing, an entity to provide a telecommunications service for the
                hearing or speech impaired in the relevant geographic area. Such
                authorization is the responsibility of the appropriate regulatory agency.

     Conservation

     Consideration given to the efficient and effective use of a finite numbering
     resource in order to minimize the cost and need to expand its availability,
     while at the same time allowing the maximum flexibility in the introduction
     of new services, capabilities and features.	

     INC

     Industry Numbering Committee, a standing committee of the Industry Carriers
     Compatibility Forum (ICCF) that provides an open forum to address and resolve
     industry-wide issues associated with the planning, administration, allocation,
     assignment and use of numbering resources and related dialing considerations
     for public telecommunications within the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) area. 	
		
     In Service

     An active 800-855 number in which specific subscribers or services are actively
     utilizing assigned telephone numbers.

     NANP Area

     Consists of the United States, Canada, Bermuda, and the NANP Caribbean administrations.
     (Replaces World Zone 1 in all documents)

     NANPA

     North American Numbering Plan Administration. With divestiture, key responsibilities
     for coordination and administration of the North American Numbering/Dialing Plans were
     assigned to NANPA. These central administration functions are exercised in an impartial
     manner toward all industry segments while balancing the utilization of a limited resource.

     Number Administrator

     Entity responsible for the administration of the 800-855 number resource, i.e., NANPA.

     Number Holder

     The entity to whom an 800-855 number has been assigned for use in providing services to
     hearing or speech impaired individuals.

     RESP ORG

     The responsible organization is the entity identified by the 800 subscriber or the 800
     subscriber's agent that assumes the duty of managing and administering the appropriate
     records in the 800/SMS system which include Data Entry, Record Change, Trouble Acceptance,
     Referral and/or Clearance.

     Telecommunications Relay Service/Message Relay Service (TRS/MRS)

     TRS (US) or MRS (Canada) is a telephone transmission service that provides the ability
     for an individual who is deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired to engage in communication
     by wire or radio with a hearing individual in a manner that is functionally equivalent to the
     ability of an individual who is not deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired.

     Text Telephone (TTY)

     Text Telephones, also known as telecommunications devices for the deaf (TDDs),
     is a non-voice or computer terminal used by persons who are deaf, hard of hearing
     or speech impaired to communicate with other TTY users or through TRS/MRS systems
     to non-hearing impaired persons.

     800/SMS

     800/Service Management System is the main operations support system of the 800 Data
     Base Access Service. It is used to create and update subscriber 800 records that are
     then downloaded to Service Control Points (SCPs) for handling subscribers' 800 calls.

 --

			 The Canadian Scene Now:

 This is a list of the following active underground h/p organizations in
 Canada right now. If you have any addresses to add, please feel free to
 contact me. All websites are reviewed by me personally for quality.

 Canadian Phreakers Union - www.nettwerked.net/cpu | VERY ACTIVE | Phreaking

 Hack Canada - www.hackcanada.com | VERY ACTIVE | Hacking and Phreaking

 Infowar - www.infowar.ca | VERY ACTIVE (NEW!) | H/P News Site, and More!

 Pyrofreak - http://www.multimania.com/pyrozine/index.html | ACTIVE | Phreaking

 The Grasshopper Unit - www.ghu.ca | ACTIVE | Phreaking and Urban Exploration

--

 Reader Feedback:

Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2001 22:17:06 -0600 (CST)
From: magma@ghu.ca
To: theclone@hackcanada.com
Subject: Reader feedback for CRTC

    [The following text is in the "ISO-8859-1" character set]
    [Your display is set for the "US-ASCII" character set]
    [Some characters may be displayed incorrectly]

You've done an awesome job with k-1ine, met your self set deadlines and managed
to create a great mag for the underground. I hope your new venture has as much
success. You got the added advantage that everyone loves phones = )

- Magma

-

Date: Wed, 17 Oct 2001 20:26:22 -0400
From: Dave Poirier <eks@void-core.2y.net>
To: theclone@hackcanada.com
Subject: crtc-02 feedback

hi,

I just recently hooked myself to 'officials' regroupment of
hackers/phreakers both canadian and world-wide.  Reading the crtc issues
I've noticed that only very few qualities articles were being presented.

This is much to be expected in a new magazine, but I was quite surprised
to also see a good informative article by m4chine entitled 'The G.E.T.S.
(Government Emergency Telephone System) Paper'

I've had heard of such system being implemented in Canada for quite some
time now, but this is the first article I cross on the internet that yet
gives precise details on how to reach it.

Thanks to m4chine and I wish you guys to have more of such quality
article. Good Luck :)

EKS

...

