		Hacker Information Report Issue #10
	Hacker Newz: A Look into the goings-on of the HiR Crew

	Well, we obviousely had some major productional slow-downs this
time around.  It's been months and months since the last issue, but at
least we're not trying to release garbage and pass it off as a
high-quality Text E-Zine.  Defcon 7 was a complete and total blast, and
much was learned there, both educationally and practically.  There was a
great amount to be absorbed this year, and we didn't have time to take in
all aspects of the convention.

	This year, unlike last, all of the HiR Writers that attended
Defcon were able to bring full-fledged laptops.  Axon purchased a fairly
nice Pentium 90 with 40 megs of ram and 810 megs of hard drive just before
the convention.  He took two other laptop hard drives along for the ride.
(The three drives had different OS's on them).  Frogman bought a newer
laptop for defcon (a 486/75).  We got quite a bit done at the convention.
Each of us made some new contacts, picked up some vital information, and
purchased all sorts of sordid goodies. 

	We bought one copy each of NetBSD, FreeBSD, and OpenBSD.  As a
whole, It'd be safe to say that the HiR Crew really loves the work that
all these guys are doing.  The mentality behind the BSD's is quite a bit
different from the driving force behind Linux (Availability of source
code and the ability to obtain the OS for free are some similarity), but
the BSD's are really a tad less glamourous, but usually more stable, and
more secure.  (The OpenBSD Project, for instance, is proactively focused
on security, and produces what many people, myself included, would call
one of the most scure OS's available)

New on the hardware list for DefCon 8:

o Axon picked up an RS/6000 for cheap.  It's a pizza-box style case.
  Perfect for number crunching.  We'll probably run John the Ripper
  Under AIX 4.3.2.

o Asmodian's almost got his hands on a new(er) 200 MHz Laptop.  This will
  replace the one he's currently using (Pentium 120?), which he got
  shortly after returning from Defcon 7.  He took a 486 to DC6&7.  =]

o Frogman's Parting out his ThinkPad 720.  He'll probably have something
  better for DC8.


On other notes, we changed URL's again.  Changed Servers and everything.
Mega-Shouts to Razathorn for gracioucely providing the space and bandwidth
we need.  "Even if you're not in the scene, you rox0r.  (inside joke)" 

Hopefully, we'll be able to pump out s'more goods here in the near future.
We have some more stuff lined up.  

Oh yah.  I didn't have a really cool hands on project in this issue...
What to do?  hrm... Ah, well... Maybe next time, guys.

--HiR Crew
