   _________    SWAT MAGAZINE ISSUE THIRTY NINE MARCH    __________
  /         \___________________________________________/          \
 /                      HOW TO CHANGE THE WORLD                     \
/                             By Lemming                             \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


"We don't change society in a day until we change ourselves from the inside out"
-Dead Kennedys, 'Stars And Stripes Of Corruption'


1. Don't take anything too seriously
The golden rule of life, and a disclaimer for the rest of this list.

2. Get connected to the Internet
Try a search for some of the following keywords: Waco, Iran-Contra, Wounded
Knee, My Lai, Cointelpro, Bilderberg, Ruby Ridge, Echelon...and then deny this
system is beyond reform.

3. Subscribe to SchNEWS
The best weekly direct action newsletter for the UK. If you read only one
alternative source of news this should be it! Subscribe by email at
www.schnews.org.uk.

4. Listen to Rage Against The Machine
You're not a real revolutionary if you don't listen to RATM. The subjects of
their songs are as diverse as Cointelpro (Wake Up), the religious right (Bulls
On Parade) and sweatshop workers (Maria).

5. Buy the Big Issue every week
Because it's great, and a means of survival for many people.

6. Don't donate to charity
There are a few exceptions to this rule (possibly Oxfam, War On Want etc.) but
generally charity makes very little difference. If you really want to change the
world start by supporting the alternative media, and then join an affinity group
or syndicalist union.

7. Read
What you don't know might kill us all. Read up on the corporate media, the CIA,
the FBI, labour history, feminism, social ecology, anarchist theory, the global
economy and more. Tip for newcomers to Chomsky: Start with 'What Uncle Sam
Really Wants'.

8. Never pay for software
Paying for software is absolutely unnecessary. You can save yourself a whole
bunch of cash and deprive Bill Gates and co. of even more by getting software
from binary newsgroups and FTP sites. You can do the same with movies (in DivX
format) if you've got a high bandwidth connection. Otherwise you'll have to get
a friend to copy stuff for you, or perform the buy-rip-return trick on an
unsuspecting chain store.

9. Respect netiquette
I cannot stress this enough. Don't hammer FTP sites, don't drain bandwidth,
don't reply to spam or trolls, wrap newsgroup and email messages to 76 columns
maximum...also be vigilant when netiquette is violated by other people.

10. Put up stickers
Order stickers from your local anarchist group, or make your own and walk around
with some at all times. The Solidarity Federation has recently printed a new
batch - give 'em a fiver and they'll send you a whole bunch. Address: SF, PO Box
1681, London N8 7LE.

11. Walk
Cars pollute the planet - try and walk whenever possible, or use public
transport. Better still, get a bicycle.

12. Take drugs
Just kidding. I'm straight edge, so I don't take illegal substances of any kind
(honest mum!).

13. Buy the cheapest stuff possible
Ignore the people who tell you to boycott a particular product, just buy the
cheapest one available. This applies to everything - clothes, food, computer
hardware, you name it. Keep the money you save and use it to buy a subscription
to your favourite underground magazine.

14. Do your fair share of housework
At the same time, don't do *more* than your fair share. If your
flatmate/partner/parents are lazy sods tell them.

15. Fill out your census form with lies
The census is an invasion of your privacy. Feed the system disinformation.

16. Start a web site
You ain't nobody if you ain't got yer own .com baby!

17. Read a variety of underground and overground media
It'll broaden your horizons. Try reading everything from anarchist magazines to
liberal broadsheets to right-wing tabloids.

18. Support the alternative media
It's the information war that determines the public's perception of current
events, and at present our enemies have a monopoly on the media. We need to
break that monopoly by building up our own propaganda machines.

19. Recycle
Paper, bottles, drink cans...almost everything can be recycled.

20. Fight censorship
Learn how to bypass filtering software. And bash the Christian right whenever
possible.

21. Adbusting
Everyone can understand the message when you subvert corporate propaganda.

22. Vote at Vote.co.uk
I have a consistently libertarian voting record. How about you?

23. Mix with a diverse bunch of people
Like Michael Moore says, revolutionaries shouldn't become a sect removed from
the rest of society. How do you expect people to join you politically if you
aren't willing to join them socially?

24. Vote/don't vote
Vote for the Legalise Cannabis Alliance, or the Monster Raving Loony Party, or
draw a great big circle A across your ballot paper. Or just stay at home. It
really doesn't make much difference. Just make sure you don't do anything
stupid, like voting for Labour.

25. Fuck shit up
Pranks: Now more than ever.

26. Start, or join, an affinity group
The primary method of organising which will bring down the system.

27. Reclaim corporate space
Walk around stores like you own them - because you do. Or at least, you should.
Abuse their facilities and drain their resources. But respect the staff.

28. Order books from AK Distribution
Don't order from Amazon or some other scummy corporate bookstore if AK carries
the book or CD you want - check at www.akuk.com.

29. Shop at independent retailers
If possible.

30. Commit credit card fraud
Everyone's a winner when it comes to credit card fraud - the "victim" can claim
the money back, and you get free stuff! The only loser is the bank/insurance
company!

31. Read Crass lyrics
The music's not too hot, but the lyrics are some of the best ever, especially
General Bacardi, Have A Nice Day and Nineteen Eighty Bore. The amount of
influence that Crass had both on the punk and anarchist scenes should not be
underestimated.

32. Don't litter the planet
This is so fucking easy, but so many people think they can treat the planet like
a rubbish dump just because our corporate masters do. The other day I was
accused of not being an anarchist because I objected to my friend throwing a
magazine on the ground!

33. Respect your fellow humans
Don't treat people like shit...

34. Don't let people disrespect you
...and don't take any shit from them

35. Go to meetings
Meet people who share your political beliefs and organise with them to destroy
the state-corporate system.

36. Listen to Eminem
In a weird way, it'll make you more tolerant.

37. Ignore anything George Monbiot says
He's an idiot.

38. Fight the power
Wherever you go, be vigilant and have a short fuse when it comes to oppression
and hierarchy. Constantly invent new methods of resistance to outsmart your
masters.

39. Defend free speech
Even for people you don't like and views you don't agree with.

40. Practice democracy
What's the point in fighting against the current system if we don't create a
better one in the making? Try and organise to overthrow capitalism using
libertarian socialist principals.

41. Fall in love
You'll enjoy life more.

42. Blow stuff up
This can be very theraputic. If life is getting you down release some of that
built-up anger by bombing your local McDonald's.

43. Take part in a protest
Obvious really. Try not to get arrested though.

44. Hack the planet
Hackers have a long history of defending cyber-rights and helping out newbies on
the Internet. They should be among the most respected people in the world, along
with stand-up comedians and bus drivers.

45. Get Linux
Problem: Micro$oft has a monopoly on operating systems and its software sucks 
(with the possible exception of Windows 2000). Solution: Get a flavour of Linux,
the free (almost) Unix-based OS.

46. Learn a foreign language
To help break down cultural barriers.

47. Recycle books
What exactly is the point of keeping books after you've read them? Unless it's
one that you know you'll return to, pass them on to a friend or a charity shop.

48. Share files on the Internet
Napster may be going down soon, but there are loads of other ways to share files
on the Net. If you've got DSL or cable why not run an FTP site?

49. Join a union
If there isn't one in your workplace, start one. Remember, anyone can join the
IWW - www.iww.org.uk.

50. Have fun
There's no point in fighting for a better world if we don't enjoy what freedom
we have.

51. Secure your computer
No one else is going to do it for you - get a decent firewall and anti-virus
software.

52. Start a band
You're young, foolish and you hate the system. So the obvious thing to do is
start a band innit!

53. Shout at the TV
When something comes on TV that you don't like, try shouting at it. You'll feel
better.

54. Wear slogan-y T-shirts
While all the other zombies walk around like corporate billboards why not
promote an idea rather than a product?

55. Answer newsgroup questions
Help out a newbie or 2 in the technical help newsgroups.

56. Avoid tax
Tax goes to the government. The government are a bunch of corrupt murderers. Go
figure.

57. Listen to alternative radio
Cause it's great. Above all, defend WBAI because I love it!

58. Post to alt.fan.abbie-hoffman
Goddammit someone post some stuff!

59. Don't pay your TV license
Don't be a fool.

60. Distribute leaflets
Or print off a few copies of SchNEWS to give to your friends.

61. Raise kids
Someone's got to.

62. Read the 13th amendment of the United States constitution
Think the 13th amendment outlaws slavery? Think again! It makes an exception for
slavery as a form of punishment in prisons, which explains a lot when you think
about it.

63. Get a job
We all gotta make a living somehow.

64. Quit your job
But sometimes it can get unbearable. If so, tell your boss to go shove it. Note:
This isn't an option for some people.

65. Do all your washing together
I've never understood the fuss that people make over whites and colors. Just
bung it all in with biological powder.
66. Reply to junk mail
Junk mail is hassling for you and it makes your postal worker's life more
difficult. Every time you receive junk mail from a freepost address reply to it
asking them to take you off their mailing list. If they don't comply, try
sending them something heavy, for example a paving slab.

67. Read 1984
This has got to be the most quoted book of all time, apart from the Bible.

68. Adopt a pet
Don't buy a cat or dog from a pet shop, adopt one from an animal home. The
amount of forms you have to fill in are a bit off-putting I admit, but try to
persevere.

69. Shred all documents
You never know who might be going through your trash can. Also paper shreds make
great hamster bedding.

70. Become vegetarian
For your own health, and for animal rights. If you want a real challenge, try
going vegan.

71. Bookmark Indymedia
It's a lot easier than typing "www.indymedia.org" into your browser address bar
every time you want some real news as opposed to corporate propaganda.

72. Steal stationery from work
They expect it.

73. Don't eat junk food
The first duty of the revolutionary is to stay alive. High-chloresterol food is
bad for you and is probably made by some scummy corporation.

74. Dodge bus fares
If you know how.

75. Get PGP
Download this essential program from www.pgpi.org. This will allow you to
encrypt files and email messages so the NSA can't read them, at least not for a
few years. Tip: Try 4096-bit encryption.

76. Laugh at the Millennium Dome
Every time you pass the Millennium Dome or see it on TV laugh at it. It's
hilarious.

77. Become famous
Apart from giving you an opportunity to push for social change, becoming famous
gives you insurance to protect you from being assassinated by the secret state.

78. Masturbate
It sure is fun.

79. Boycott the World Bank
Find out if your school/university/company invests in the World Bank and if so
pressure them to pull out. This is one boycott that might actually work - see
www.worldbankboycott.org.

80. Chat on IRC
Talking to people from all over the world is a great experience, and also a
democratising force when people do it en masse.

81. Learn newspeak
Welfare reform = Welfare cuts
Entrepreneurial-encouraging subsidies = Corporate welfare
Downsizing = Layoffs
Globalization = World corporate domination
Forces of conservatism = Anyone Tony Blair doesn't like
Protectionism = Human rights or environmental standards
Structural adjustment = Upward wealth redistribution

82. Watch Question Time
...and gasp at the fact that all 5 panelists are usually all rabid right-wing
neoliberalists, not including that Dimbleby guy who is also (surprise,
surprise), a rabid right-wing neoliberalist. This is what passes for balanced
debate on the BBC!

83. Get Anita Roddick with a custard pie
A special prize from me for the first person to do this.

84. Pass on travelcards
Are travelcards non-transferable? Yes. Do you give a fuck? No!

85. Feed the pigeons in Trafalgar Square
"Feed the birds, tuppence a bag...". And if you see Ken Livingstone give him a
slap.

86. Shoot up your high school
Get your own back on all those bullies who tease you about your clothes and the
music you listen to. Who's laughing now bitches? Muhahahaha!

87. Read the Bible
Since so many people claim to follow it, it's worth a flick through. Steal a
copy from the next hotel you stay in.

88. Admit it when you're wrong
It's so much easier that way.

89. Become a teacher
Good teachers are hard to come by these days, but kids remember them for the
rest of their lives. Shouts to: Ms Leighshon, Mr Shahed, Mr Forrest, Mr Scott
(all real names). And a big fuck you to Mrs Brett - I hope you died a slow and
painful death.

90. Don't get married
What exactly is the point of marriage from a non-religious, non-monogamous,
non-sexist point of view? Fair enough if it's for tax or passport reasons but
otherwise steer well clear.

91. Shoplift
If you can get away with it, shoplifting is well worthwhile.

92. Mask up
Wear a Zapatista-style mask or balaclava to the next mass action you go to. CCTV
and police cameras are everywhere.

93. Graffiti
Graffiti has become an accepted medium for contemporary art. Rather than just
tag your area like a cat pissing on its territory try and use your art as a tool
to achieve radical social change.

94. Get a mobile phone
Do you have any idea how annoying it is the phone someone's house and find that
they're not in? Join the communications revolution.

95. Infiltrate the secret state
A bit ambitious maybe, but if you can do this great! Applications to Mr Tim
Hepple, c/o Searchlight magazine.

96. Support prisoners
Remember, it could be you. Write to prisoners and help raise awareness about
miscarriages of justice. And read/listen to Mumia Abu-Jamal's commentaries
because he's cool.

97. Smash up property
It's naive to think we can reason with the forces of oppression or overthrow the
state-corporate system using purely "non-violent" means. An essential
revolutionary tactic is the destruction of corporate property. Read 'Pacifism As
Pathology' by Ward Churchill if you think otherwise.

98. Grow stuff
Rediscover the lost art of gardening, but not in a Charlie Dimmock kind of way.
Even if it's just a tiny hemp plant in your bedroom window it's a step towards
self-sufficiency.

99. Actually do something
It's not important that you follow all the reccommendations in this guide -
hell, even I don't. What is important is that you do *something*, rather than
just sit on your ass watching MTV and drinking beer. Remember, direct action is
the only language the ruling class understands.

100. Kill yourself
Applies only to heads of state and corporate CEOs.


Lemming appreciates both positive and negative feedback. Email him at
lemming@grandtheftcyber.com.

