
                       :..::..File 6 Of 11.::..:
                       :.:..Bouncing Your IP.:.:
                       :..::...By Cyborg...::..:

<*> Introduction: This file deals with bouncing your connection through
servers. It also meant to clear up some misconceptions about your
privacy whilst on the internet.

*** Introduction To Bouncing

We all desire anonymity to a certain extent. Just exploring the
internet through your regular account is no fun. Internet Protocol is
your address when online. Whenever you send an e-mail, post to a
newsgroup, join an IRC channel even access a website you are being
tracked. Many people are paranoid about cookies. They are stored on
your computer so that websites don't need you to re-enter information.
I have also read many people say it is stupid to delete them. That is
bullshit. I delete cookies, not because I think the US government are
tracking me but because I know that encrypted passwords are often
stored in cookies and if anyone could get hold of these then they might
be able to gain access to my accounts.

Please do not confuse bouncing with spoofing. IP spoofing is the art of
hiding a connection behind packets that seem to come from some
arbitrary source. IP bouncing is the art of re-routing your IP through
somebody else's open connection. We're not going to be hiding behind
packets so there will be logs and records kept on the computer you are
bouncing to. Remember that you aren't truly safe unless you are
spoofing from a guest account on a laptop connected to an out of
country analogue cell phone whilst journeying on a train cross country
at rapid speeds. Anything short of that requires caution and obscurity.

The advantages to bouncing are many. Besides hiding your identity when
hacking (or attempting to hack) it can also be a benefit to the general
public as nuke protection, trojan protection. It is comfortable to
know that you are enclosed, but beware, you aren't untouchable.

*** Proxy Server Bouncing

Ok, we know that proxies keep logs, so hacking from one wouldn't be a
very smart idea. However what if you went through more than one? Go to
telnet. If you are on Unix type telnet and press enter. If you are on
Windows double-click telnet.exe in the Windows installed directory.
Now connect to the proxy e.g. proxy.compuserve.com on the port it is
operating. Most proxy machines operate on port 8080 but not always.

Then connect yourself through telnet to another proxy, then another
and so on. Now when a distraught victim finds someone has been in their
box they'll will contact the sysadmin of the proxy requesting logs.
Then when they figure out that its another proxy they will have to
contact another sysadmin. Now, many sysadmins aren't willing to e-mail
their logs simply because somebody said they were hacked, and many will
have deleted their recent logs by the time they are contacted by the
victim down the line of sysadmins.

Also, use a guest account. If your victim does manages to weave his
way through your multiple connection he will eventually hit a dead end.
So by now you must be convinced that bouncing is a good idea. To use a
proxy through your web browser, in Netscape, click on Options|Network
Preferences then click on the 'Proxies' tab and check the radio button
'Manual Proxy config' and then click the 'view' button. Set it up for
whatever protocols you want, (some proxies might only support HTTP)
probably FTP and HTTP. In Internet Explorer, click View|Options| then
click on the 'Connection' tab and set it up with Netscape.

*** Wingate Bouncing

Wingate is a program for Windows which allows you to connect a whole
network to the internet, bearing all the net traffic on one computer.
In short, it is just another proxy program. However, it is very popular
for its use by hackers. Its flaws allow you to bounce to it from the
standard telnet port 23. This means you can use all the telnet commands
from your connection.

Port 23 is open from the basic system preferences. It can be blocked or
restricted to password access only, but comes open by default. You can
telnet to port 23 on any wingate system. It will then give you the
WinGate> prompt. You can then telnet from there to any other system:

WinGate>proxy.compuserve.com:23

Wingate IPs are very handy to have so I recommend you start scanning
for them right away. What a wingate scanner does is open port 23 on a
computer and scan for the string WinGate> That is not the only thing
wrong with Wingate. If you are an OP in an IRC channel and you suspect
someone is wingating you can crash them off the internet. The bug is
pretty straight forward, telnet to the server at its pop3 port and then
type in:

USER x#99999.....

Type as many nines as possible, this will crash the buffer overflow.
It might be important for you to know that all these tricks only work
if the sysadmin is too lazy to bother fixing them. Here is eight steps
if you are reading this file to help secure your Wingate:

1 - Open GateKeeper and log into Wingate as Administrator.
2 - Double click on Policies, and double click on "Default Policies".
3 - Select the right "Users can access services".
4 - There will be one recipient there - "Everyone". Double click on
    this recipient.
5 - Select the Location tab.
6 - Select "Specify locations from where this recipient has rights".
7 - Add 127.0.0.1 and the entries of your main network card.
8 - Hit OK, and remember to save changes.

Now only your LAN users can access any service in Wingate. If some of 
your services are using their own rules rather than the global ones,
you can perform this action for each recipient in those service
specific rules.

Well I hope this has been an informative read. If you would like to
e-mail me regarding anything in this file then go ahead. If you are
interested in hacking, phreaking or programming then e-mail me or visit
my website:
                          cyborg@disinfo.net
                        http://cyborg.ie.8m.com

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
