
                       :..::..File 4 Of 11.::..:
                       :..Pirate Radio Series..:
                       :..::...By Cyborg...::..:

<*> Pirate Radio Series Part II

Introduction: This file deals with starting your own pirate radio
station. It is a part two of a four part series on pirate radio. I've
researched many sites on the internet combined with my own knowledge
to write this file.

Going On The Air

 - Transmitters

One of your most important and difficult investments will be the
purchase of a transmitter. You could always build your own... but it is
much easier and usually cheaper to purchase a transmitter. There are
some safety guidelines that need to be followed when operating a
transmitter. When you get your manual you would probably like to just
skip the start and get down to some business. This can be lethal.


<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

 TRANSMITTERS UTILISE LETHAL VOLTAGES! NEVER OPERATE A TRANSMITTER WITH
 THE SAFETY DEVICES BYPASSED! YOU COULD BE KILLED! RF ENERGY LEAVES A
 DAMAGING BURN IF YOU MAKE "CONTACT"! TREAT YOUR TRANSMITTER WITH
 RESPECT AND CAUTION OR IT MAY COST YOU YOUR LIFE!

<*>-----------------------------------------------------------------<*>

So what is a transmitter and what does it do? A transmitter is a device
that converts AC or DC energy to RF energy. By itself, RF energy
doesn't do you much good, so a transmitter also requires audio
information to "modulate" the RF energy it generates. The modulated RF
energy is coupled into an antenna to be dispersed into the ionosphere.
Did you get all that? Good.

Have you ever heard of a Variable Frequency Oscillator? I didn't think
so, it sounds like a device from the Starship Enterprise. This is the
next step up from Crystal Control (This means you must supply a crystal
cut or ground for a specific frequency to operate on that frequency). A
transmitter that comes equipped with a VFO or can use an external VFO
gives you freedom to operate on any frequency that it covers and where
the transmitter is able to tune up. Most VFO's will cover the ham bands
in 500 Khz segments and this can be utilized by the pirate to get
outside the ham bands. It also allows for moving your frequency at a 
moments notice.

By now, you might be familiar with some terms that describe types of
modulation. Here is a quick guide:

* AM  = Amplitude Modulation
* SSB = Single Side Band
* USB = Upper Side Band
* LSB = Lower Side Band
* DSB = Double Side Band
* FM  = Frequency Modulation
* PM  = Phase Modulation

AM modulation, a carrier wave determines your frequency and 66% of your
transmitter power is used here! The modulating signal, audio info, is
used to vary the amplitude of the carrier wave by means of upper and
lower side bands. This is where the remaining 33% of the transmitters
power goes.

The range of audible frequencies to most people is 20 to 20,000 Hertz.
In most amateur gear the audio bandwidth is restricted to 300 to 3,000
Hertz. If you wanted to be a real smart guy you could transmit on 2600
Hertz. This range is the best for projecting your voice signal. Now in
AM mode combine 2.7 Khz for both upper and lower sidebands and you have
an AM signal almost 6 Khz wide. If the frequency response of the
transmitter was increased to 10 Khz, the resulting AM signal would be
20 Khz wide! You should now be starting to understand why commercial
broadcasting stations reserve a wide berth.

Feeding your program audio into your transmitter properly can be a
difficult and frustrating challenge! To start with, a Microphone level
signal is High in impedance, typically, and quite small electrically.
This is what the input circuits of your transmitter are expecting to
see when you operate it in a voice mode. Now, the typical output level
of a tape deck is Medium in impedance and electrically much higher than
a microphone signal. This is where the trouble starts. 

Ways to tell if you are experiencing problems is that your transmitted
signal will be under modulated meaning you are not supplying a large
enough signal or the reverse will be true, your transmitted signal
will be over modulated meaning it will sound distorted, will be wide,
and generally, unlistenable. Take heart that both can be cured and all
you need is a little knowledge! What you need is a matching network,
more commonly known as a PAD, between your program audio and Mic Input
of your transmitter.

You must be selective when purchasing your transmitter. Here are some
quick tips to help guide you:

* Read the fucking manual

When buying a transmitter the manuals are essential. Trying to find
manuals for older pieces of gear can be a difficult and expensive task.
these URLs provide a good stock:

http://eigen.net/w7fg/
http://www.sarrio.com/sarrio/rsfinal1.html

* Let your smell guide you

This may sound odd but stick your face right down into the transmitter,
POWER OFF! and take a big whiff! If it smells "burned" it would
probably be wise to keep looking at other transmitters. Although you
may be so embarrassed from sticking your face in that maybe you should
just run out of the store.

* Need to know basis

Under NO circumstances should you inform the potential seller of a
transmitter what you are going to be using it for! Just say something
like you are studying for your ham license. I doubt that they would be
too interested in tuning into your illegal underground station anyway.
Be careful what you say!

* Living conditions

Make sure you store your transmitter in a cool dry place. The last
thing you need is to let it get wet and die from an electric shock.
Also, don't let it overheat, again the current of electricity has no
pity on you.

 - Antennas

Antennas are probably one of the most debated, most studied and cause
for the most confusion of any field in radio. The antenna is the most
important part of your station if properly constructed. For instance:
Transmitter A runs 100 watts to a improper antenna and gets heard only
marginally. Transmitter B runs 10 watts to a properly constructed,
resonant antenna and gets heard much better and louder than Transmitter
A. The quality of your antenna is a prediction of the quality of your
whole station. It is crucial to have it in working order.

Perhaps the easiest and most popular antenna is a Dipole. The dipole
antenna is easily constructed, almost impossible to mess up and works
well at almost any height above ground. For the beginner, this is the
antenna to use. For your antenna to work well, you need to determine
the frequency you are going to operate on. For example, we'll say 7445
Khz. To determine the length of wire our dipole antenna will need, we
use the following formula: 468 divided by Frequency in Megahertz =
Length in Feet. So, working the math, 468 / 7.445 = 62.86 Feet. Round
that off and we come to 62 Feet 10 Inches. This is the total length of
the antenna. To make a dipole, cut two wires, each one 31 Feet 5 Inches
long. 

While not absolutely necessary, a Balun is recommended. For Dipole
antennas that are fed with Coax line, a 1 to 1 Balun is suggested. A
Balun matches a BALanced Line (uour Dipole) to an UNbalanced Line (Your
Coax). This makes for an even greater transfer of power from the
feedline to the antenna and will also prevent the ground shield of your
Coax from becoming a radiator of RF! Baluns are a complex and difficult
subject to fathom but there are books out that explain the How To's
better than I could. Just remember, A Balun is optional but is worth
the trouble and not that expensive to install one. 

Another question you might be asking "How high should I try to get my
dipole?" My answer: as high as possible. If you live near hills or
mountains then maybe you can set it up concealed next to a weather
station. If that isn't possible then at least running up the side of
your house or apartment block. The higher, the better. Dipoles
typically have the most favorable radiation patterns when they are 1
wavelength above ground. In the case of our 40 Meter Dipole, that comes
to a whopping 125 Feet! I think it's safe to say that 99.99% of all 40
Meter Dipoles erected do not reach these heights.

The last consideration you need to think about is that of antenna
orientation. A dipole will radiate the majority of power in lobes that
are perpendicular to the axis of the dipole. What this means is, if you
run your dipole North to South, then the majority of your RF signal
will be radiated in a East to West pattern. So depending on your
geographical location of your transmitter and the location of your
listeners will depend on how you orient your antenna. You may also find
that there is only one or two possible ways to place your dipole on
your property, don't sweat it. Just hang it up and off you go 

Look out for Part III of this series where I will discuss operating
tips and sharing the air with other radio people. Well I hope this has
been an informative read. If you would like to e-mail me regarding
anything in this file then go ahead. If you are interested in hacking,
phreaking or programming then e-mail me or visit my website:

                          cyborg@disinfo.net
                        http://cyborg.ie.8m.com

                       :..::..End Of File..::..:
 