Yo momma so fat when she wears red she looks like the Kool-Aid Man. 
Yo momma so fat when she sits around, she sits around. 
Yo momma so fat when god said let there be light god told yo mamma to move her fat ass. 
Yo momma so fat when she wears a Malcom X T-Shirt hellicopters try landing on her.
Yo momma so fat when she lies on the beach no one else gets sun! 
Yo momma so fat when she bungee jumps she goes straight to hell! 
Yo momma so fat when her beeper goes off, people thought she was backing up. 
Yo momma so fat were in her right now. 
Yo momma so fat people jog around her for exercise. 
Yo momma so fat she went to the movies and sat next to everyone 
Yo mamma so fat you have to roll over twice to get off her. 
Yo momma so fat she was floating in the ocean and Portugal claimed her for the new world 
Yo momma so fat when she has sex, she has to give directions! 
Yo momma so fat she goes to a resturant, looks at the menu and says "okay!" 
Yo momma so fat when she wears a yellow raincoat, people said "Taxi!" 
Yo momma so fat she put on her lipstick with a paint-roller 
Yo momma so fat the highway patrol made her wear "Caution! Wide Turn" 
Yo momma so fat when she sits around the house, she SITS AROUND THE HOUSE! 
Yo momma so fat she's got more Chins than a Hong Kong phone book! 
Yo momma so fat that her senior pictures had to be arial views! 
Yo momma so fat she's on both sides of the family! 
Yo momma so fat everytime she walks in high heels, she strikes oil! 
Yo momma so fat she fell and made the Grand Canyon! 
Yo momma so fat that when she hauls ass, she has to make two trips! 
Yo momma so fat she broke her leg, and gravy poured out! 
Yo momma so fat she has a run in her blue-jeans! 
Yo momma so fat when she back up she beeps. 
Yo momma so fat she has to buy two airline tickets. 
Yo momma so fat the Aids quilt wouldn't cover her 
Yo momma so fat she stands in two time zones. 
Yo momma so fat when she goes to an all you can eat buffet, they have to install speed bumps. 
Yo momma so fat when she wears a Malcomn X T-shirt, helicopters try to land on her back! 
Yo momma so fat that when she sits on the beach, Greenpeace shows up and tries to tow her back into the ocean.
Yo momma so fat that she would have been in E.T., but when she rode the bike across the moon, she caused an eclipse. 
Yo momma so fat the National Weather Agency has to assign names to her farts!!! 
Yo momma so fat we went to the drive-in and didn't have to pay because we dressed her as a Chevrolet. 
Yo momma so fat when she steps on a scale, it read "one at a time, please" 
Yo momma so fat when she gets on the scale it says to be continued. 
Yo momma so fat she's got her own area code! 
Yo momma so fat whenever she goes to the beach the tide comes in! 
Yo momma so fat when she plays hopscotch, she goes New York, L.A., Chicago... 
Yo momma so fat her legs is like spoiled milk - white & chunky! 
Yo momma so fat I had to take a train and two buses just to get to her good side! 
Yo momma so fat she wakes up in sections! 
Yo momma so fat she sat on a quarter and a booger shot out of george washington's nose. Go to the top
Yo momma so stupid that she brought a cup to the movie juice. 
Yo momma so stupid that she sold the car for gas money. 
Yo momma so stupid she sits on the TV, and watches the couch! 
Yo momma so stupid she bought a videocamera to record cable tv shows at home. 
Yo momma so stupid that under "Education" on her job application, she put "Hooked on Phonics." 
Yo momma so stupid She went to disneyworld and saw a sign that said "Disneyworld Left" so she went home. 
Yo momma so stupid she asked me what kind of jeans I had on and I said "guess" so she said levi's 
Yo momma so stupid it took her 2 hours to watch 60 minutes 
Yo momma so stupid when she saw the NC-17 (under 17 not admitted) sign, she went home and got 16 friends 
Yo momma so stupid she hears it's chilly outside so she gets a bowl 
Yo momma so stupid that she tried to put M&M's in alphabetical order! 
Yo momma so stupid she bought a solar-powered flashlight! 
Yo momma so stupid she thinks a quarterback is a refund! 
Yo mamma so stupid she ran into a parked car. 
Yo mamma so stupid she sold her car to buy brand new tires. 
Yo momma is so stupid she thinks she is smart. 
Yo momma so fat and stupid her waist is bigger than her I.Q. Yo Mamma's So Ugly
Yo momma so ugly her parents had to tie a porkchop around her neck to get the dog to play with her. 
Yo momma so ugly when she joined an ugly contest, they said "Sorry, no professionals." 
Yo momma so ugly she looks out the window and got arrested for mooning. 
Yo momma so ugly just after she was born, her mother said "What a treasure!" and her father said "Yes, let's go bury it." 
Yo momma so ugly they push her face into dough to make gorilla cookies. 
Yo momma so ugly they filmed "Gorillas in the Mist" in her shower 
Yo momma so ugly she gets 364 extra days to dress up for Halloween. 
Yo momma so ugly her mom had to be drunk to breast feed her 
Yo momma so ugly her mom had to tie a steak around her neck to get the dogs to play with her. 
Yo momma so ugly when she walks down the street in September, people say "Damn, is it Halloween already?" 
Yo momma so ugly the government moved Halloween to her birthday. 
Yo momma so ugly people go as her for Halloween. 
Yo momma so ugly that your father takes her to work with him so that he doesn't have to kiss her goodbye. 
Yo mamma so ugly she could make an onion cry. 
Yo momma is so ugly that when she looks in to the mirror she says what an ugly person. 
Yo mamma so ugly when she was born the doctor just slapped her parents. Yo Mamma So Old
Yo momma so old I told her to act her own age, and she died. 
Yo momma so old she has Jesus' beeper number! 
Yo momma so old her social security number is 1! 
Yo momma so old that when God said let the be light, she hit the switch. 
Yo momma so old that when she was in school there was no history class. 
Yo momma so old she owes Jesus 3 bucks! 
Yo momma so old she's in Jesus's yearbook! 
Yo momma so old her birth certificate says expired on it. 
Yo momma so old she knew Burger King while he was still a prince. 
Yo momma so old she was a waitress at the Last Supper. 
Yo momma so old she ran track with dinosaurs. 
Yo momma so old she sat behind Jesus in the third grade. Yo Mamma So Poor
Yo momma so poor when I saw her kicking a can down the street, I asked her what she was doing, she said "Moving." 
Yo momma so poor she can't afford to pay attention! 
Yo momma so poor when I ring the doorbell I hear the toilet flush! 
Yo momma so poor when she goes to KFC, she has to lick other people's fingers!!! 
Yo momma so poor when I ring the doorbell she says,"DING!" 
Yo momma so poor she went to McDonald's and put a milkshake on layaway. 
Yo momma so poor your family ate cereal with a fork to save milk. 
Yo momma so poor her face is on the front of a foodstamp. 
Yo momma so poor she was in K-Mart with a box of Hefty bags. I said, "What ya doin'?" She said, "Buying luggage."
Yo momma so poor she drives a peanut. 
Yo momma so poor she waves around a popsicle stick and calls it air conditioning. 
Yo momma so poor burglars break in her house and leave money 
Yo momma so poor you go out for sunday pushes of the skateboardMiscellaneous
Yo momma's underwear is so full of holes that when she farts they whistle. 
Yo mamma has so much dandruff, the lice have to wear snow boots. SO FAT,
Yo momma so fat when her beeper goes off, people thought she was backing up
Yo momma so fat she eats Wheat Thicks
Yo momma so fat people jog around her for exercise
Yo momma so fat she went to the movies and sat next to everyone
Yo momma so fat she was in the ocean and Spain claimed her for the new world
Yo momma so fat she goes to a resturant, looks at the menu and says "okay!"
Yo momma so fat she got to iron her pants on the driveway
Yo momma so fat she put on her lipstick with a paint-roller
Yo momma so fat when she bungee jumps, she brings down the bridge too
Yo momma so fat when she sits around the house, she SITS AROUND THE HOUSE!
Yo momma so fat when she steps on a scale, it read "one at a time, please"
Yo momma so fat she fell in love and broke it
Yo momma so fat when she gets on the scale it says to be continued
Yo momma so fat when she gets on the scale it says we don't do livestock
Yo momma so fat she's got her own area code!
Yo momma so fat she looks like she's smuggling a Volkswagon!
Yo momma so fat whenever she goes to the beach the tide comes in!
Yo momma so fat her legs is like spoiled milk - white & chunky!
Yo momma so fat I had to take a train to get on her good side!
Yo momma so fat she wakes up in sections!
Yo momma so fat when she goes to an amusement park, people try to ride HER!
Yo momma so fat she rolled over 4 quarters and it made a dollar!
Yo momma so fat when she lies on the beach no one else gets sun!
Yo momma so fat when she jumps up in the air she gets stuck!!!
Yo momma so fat she's got more Chins than a Hong Kong phone book!
Yo momma so fat that her senior picture had to be arial view!
Yo momma so fat she's on both sides of the family!
Yo momma so fat everytime she walks in high heels, she strikes oil!
Yo momma so fat she has a wooden leg with a kickstand!
Yo momma so fat she broke her leg, and gravy poured out!
Yo momma so fat she got hit by a parked car!
Yo momma so fat they have to grease the bath tub to get her out!
Yo momma so fat she has a run in her blue-jeans!
Yo momma so fat when she back up she beep
Yo momma so fat she has to buy two airline tickets
Yo momma so fat when she fell over she rocked herself asleep trying to get up
Yo momma so fat she influences the tides
Yo momma so fat that when I tried to drive around her I ran out of gas
Yo momma so fat the animals at the zoo feed her
Yo momma so fat when she dances at a concert the whole band skips
Yo momma so fat the Aids quilt wouldn't cover her
Yo momma so fat she stands in two time zones
Yo momma so fat you have to grease the door frame and hold a twinkie on the other side just to get her through
Yo momma so fat when she goes to an all you can eat buffet, they have to install speed bumps
Yo momma so fat that she can't tie her own shoes
Yo momma so fat she sets off car alarms when she runs
Yo momma so fat when she wears a Malcomn X T-shirt, helicopters try to land on her back!
Yo momma so fat the only pictures you have of her are satellite pictures
Yo momma so fat she put on some BVD's and by the time they reached her waist they spelled out boulevard
Yo momma so fat that when she sits on the beach, Greenpeace shows up and tries to tow her back into the ocean
Yo momma so fat that she would have been in ET, but when she rode the  bike across the moon, she caused an eclipse
Yo momma so fat she was Miss Arizona --  class Battleship
Yo momma so fat to her "light food" means under 4 Tons
Yo momma so fat The Himalayas are practices runs to prepare for her
Yo momma so fat she went on a date with high heels on and came back with sandals!!!
Yo momma so fat she stepped on a talking scale and it told her to get off!!!
Yo momma so fat and stupid, her waist size is larger than her IQ!!!
Yo momma so fat she was zoned for commercial development
Yo momma so stupid it took her 2 hours to watch 60 minutes
Yo momma so stupid it took her half an hour to make minute rice
Yo momma so stupid she threw a brick at the floor and missed
Yo momma so stupid when she saw the NC-17 (under 17 not admitted) sign, she went home and got 16 friends
Yo momma so stupid that she puts lipstick on her head just to make-up her mind
Yo momma so stupid she hears it's chilly outside so she gets a bowl
Yo momma so stupid you have to dig for her IQ!
Yo momma so stupid she got locked in a grocery store and starved!
Yo momma so stupid that she tried to put M&M's in alphabetical order!
Yo momma so stupid she could trip over a cordless phone!
Yo momma so stupid she sold her car for gasoline money!
Yo momma so stupid she bought a solar-powered flashlight!
Yo momma so stupid she thinks a quarterback is a refund!
Yo momma so stupid she took a cup to see Juice
Yo momma so stupid she asked you "What is the number for 911"
Yo momma so stupid she got stabbed in a shoot out
Yo momma so stupid she called Dan Quayle for a spell check
Yo momma so stupid she stepped on a crack and broke her own back
Yo momma so stupid she thought she needed a token to get on Soul Train
Yo momma so stupid she took the Pepsi challenge and chose Jif
Yo momma so stupid when you stand next to her you hear the ocean!
Yo momma so stupid she thinks Fleetwood Mac is a new hamburger at McDonalds!
Yo momma so stupid she sits on the TV, and watches the couch!
Yo momma so stupid when she went to take the 6 train, she took the 3 twice
Yo momma so stupid she jumped out the window and went up
Yo momma so stupid she took a umbrella to see Purple Rain
Yo momma so stupid she watches "The Three Stooges" and takes notes
Yo momma so stupid she couldn't read an audio book
Yo momma so stupid it take her a week to get rid of a 24hr virus
Yo momma so stupid it take her a day to cook a 3 minute egg
Yo momma so stupid She has to ask for help to use hamburger helper
Yo momma so stupid She went to disneyworld and saw a sign that said "Disneyworld Left" so she went home
Yo momma so stupid she asked me what kind of jeans I had on and I said "guess" so she said levi's
Yo momma so stupid she called information to get the number for 411 
Yo momma so ugly when she joined an ugly contest, they said "Sorry, no professionals"
Yo momma so ugly just after she was born, her mother said "What a treasure!" and her father said "Yes, let's go bury it"
Yo momma so ugly they push her face into dough to make gorilla cookies
Yo momma so ugly instead of putting the bungee cord around her ankle, they put it around her neck
Yo momma so ugly she gets 364 extra days to dress up for Halloween
Yo momma so ugly when she walks into a bank, they turn off the surveillence cameras
Yo momma so ugly her mom had to tie a steak around her neck to get the dogs to play with her
Yo momma so ugly the government moved Halloween to her birthday
Yo momma so ugly that if ugly were bricks she'd have her own projects
Yo momma so ugly she made an onion cry
Yo momma so ugly when they took her to the beautician it took 12 hours for a quote!
Yo momma so ugly she tried to take a bath the water jumped out!
Yo momma so ugly she looks out the window and gets arrested!
Yo momma so ugly even Rice Krispies won't talk to her!
Yo momma so ugly Ted Danson wouldn't date her!
Yo momma so ugly for Halloween she trick or treats on the phone!
Yo momma so ugly she turned Medusa to stone!
Yo momma so ugly people go as her for Halloween
Yo momma so ugly she scares the roaches away
Yo momma so ugly I heard that your dad first met her at the pound
Yo momma so ugly that your father takes her to work with him so that he doesn't have to kiss her goodbye
Yo momma so ugly she is very successful at her job: Being a scarecrow
Yo momma so ugly she has to sneak up on a glass of water
Yo momma so old I told her to act her own age, and she died
Yo momma so old her social security number is 1!
Yo momma so old that when she was in school there was no history class
Yo momma so old her birth certificate says expired on it
Yo momma so old she knew Burger King while he was still a prince
Yo momma so old her birth certificate is in Roman numerals
Yo momma so poor she can't afford to pay attention!
Yo momma so poor when she goes to KFC, she has to lick other people's fingers
Yo momma so poor when I ring the doorbell she says,"DING!"
Yo momma so poor she went to McDonald's and put a milkshake on layaway
Yo momma so poor your family ate cereal with a fork to save milk
Yo momma so poor her face is on the front of a foodstamp
Yo momma so poor she wave around a popsicle stick and calls it air conditioning
Yo momma so poor burglars break in her house and leave money
Yo momma so dark she went to night school and was marked absent!
Yo momma so dark that she can leave fingerprints on charcoal
Yo momma so dark she has to wear white gloves when she eats Tootsie Rolls to keep from eating her fingers7
Yo momma so dark they made a movie of her heart transplant called "From the darkest heart of Africa"
Yo momma so short you can see her feet on her drivers lisence!
Yo momma so short she has to use a ladder to pick up a dime
Yo momma so short she can play handball on the curb
Yo momma so short she does backflips under the bed
Yo momma so short she models for trophys
Yo momma so short she pole vaults with a toothpick
Yo momma so short she has to look down to look up
Yo momma so nasty she made Speed Stick slow down
Yo momma so nasty she made Right Guard turn left
Yo momma so nasty the fishery be paying her to leave
Yo momma so nasty she has to creep up on bathwater
Yo momma so nasty she made Sure confused
Yo momma so nasty Ozzie Ozbourne refused to bite her head off
Yo momma so nasty she went swimming and now we have the dead sea
Yo momma so nasty she joined the four horseman: war, death, famine, disease and Yo momma
Yo momma so hairy she look like she got Buchwheat in a headlock
Yo momma so hairy Bigfoot is taking her picture!
Yo momma so hairy she looks like a Chia Pet with an afro!
Yo momma so hairy she shaves with a weedwhacker
Yo momma so slutty when she got a new mini skirt, everyone commented on her nice belt.    
Yo momma so greasy she used bacon as a band-aid!
Yo momma so greasy she sweats Crisco!
Yo momma teeth are so yellow traffic slows down when she smiles!
Yo momma teeth are so yellow she spits butter!
Yo momma teeth are so yellow I can't believe its not butter
Yo momma so lazy she thinks a two-income family is where yo daddy has two jobs
Yo momma so skinny she has to wear a belt with spandex
Yo momma so skinny she turned sideways and dissapeared
Yo momma so bald you can see what's on her mind
Yo momma so bald that she took a shower and got brain-washed
Yo momma's glasses are so thick that when she looks on a map she can see people waving
Yo momma's glasses are so thick she can see into the future
Yo momma has one leg and a bicycle
Yo momma has one hand and a Clapper
Yo momma has a wooden afro with an "X" carved in the back
Yo momma has green hair and thinks she's a tree
Yo momma has one ear and has to take off her hat to hear what you're saying
Yo momma has 10 fingers--all on the same hand
Yo momma has a glass eye with a fish in it
Yo momma has a short leg and walks in circles
Yo momma has a short arm and can't applaude
Yo momma has no ears I seen her trying on sunglasses
Yo momma house so small she has to go outside to eat a large pizza
Yo momma house so small you have to go outside to change your mind
Yo momma house so dirty she has to wipe her feet before she goes outside
Yo momma head so small she use a tea-bag as a pillow
Yo momma head so small that she got her ear pierced and died
Yo momma breath so bad when she yawns her teeth duck
Yo momma lips so big, Chap Stick had to invent a spray
Yo momma teeth are so rotten, when she smiles they look like dice
Yo momma mouth so big, she speaks in surround sound
Yo momma hair so nappy she has to take Tylenol just to comb it
Yo momma so clumsy she got tangled up in a cordless phone
Yo momma so wrinkled, she has to screw her hat on
Yo momma twice the man you are
Yo momma cross-eyed and watches TV in stereo
Yo momma is missing a finger and can't count past 9
Yo momma arms are so short, she has to tilt her head to scratch her ear
Yo momma middle name is Rambo
Yo momma in a wheelchair and says, "You ain't gonna push me 'round no more"
Yo momma so grouchy, the McDonalds she works in doesn't even serve Happy Meals
Yo momma is in a wheelchair screaming "I AIN'T STANDING FOR THIS"
Yo momma threw a frizbee three weeks ago that hasn't landed yet
