+------------------------------------------------------+
Ý Oblivion Underground Magazine - Issue 1 - 15/03/2000 Ý
Ý Multilink and ISDN Channel Bonding by Cyber0ptix     Ý
Ý E-Mail : cyberoptix@email.com                        Ý
+------------------------------------------------------+


Multilink And ISDN Channel Bonding With Windows 98
--------------------------------------------------

Windows 98 and NT4 come with the facility to use more than one connection to
your ISP at the same time.  This gennerally means that you would either use
more than one modem, or  if using ISDN TA (Terminal Adaptor), both ISDN
channels at the same time.

(NOTE: The upgrade to DUN V1.3 makes this available to Windows 95)

For those of you who have never heard of a Terminal Adaptor, they are just
like a modem except they connect to an ISDN line (digital) instead of
connecting to an analogue phoneline.  They come with there own driver
software, on CD or Floppy, and this must be installed.

The term ISDN is short for Intergrated Services Digital Network.  ISDN was
developed by the United Nations (The International Telecommunications Union)
in order to overcome the shortcomings of the standard public telephone system
when used to connect to remote computer systems.  Essentially ISDN provides
the means to allow digital communication to occour directly without having to
first convert the signal before transmission.

ISDN is capable of carrying all types of digital signal, hence the term
'Integrated Services'.  This means that a number of different media types can
be transmitted simultaneously.  So a digitised voice signal can share the same
channel as a computer data signal or digital videosignal, allowing several
communications to occour at the same time.  This multi-channel architecture
opens up the potential of telecommuting, simultaneous voice, fax, data and
e-mail, inexpensive video conferencing, tele-radiology and remote helath care,
tele-teaching, remote broadcasting and high quality audio transmission,
collaborative CAD/CAM engineering, LAN to LAN connectivity, interactive
publishing and many, many other applications.

ISDN networks have generally evolved over recent years to encompass most of
the developed world and are being used extensivly by multinational
corporations to transfer large amounts of data accross continents and to
provide real-time mlti-channel video/audio conferencing facilities.

The major benefit of using ISDN to connect to the Internet is the considerable
increase in data speed (upload as well as download - compared to V.90
technology), but also the ability to establish and drop a connection almost
instantly.  This results in not only a faster access time, but also allows the
connection to be made and dropped automatically as the need arises, giving the
user the impression of a permanent connection.

So How do you do it?

1. Set up dial up networking using one modem (or TA).

2. In the dial up networking folder right click on the connection and click
   properties.

3. On the multilink tab, click 'Use Additional Devices', and then click add.

4. In 'Edit Extra Device', select the device you want to add to the
   connection and then click OK.

5. Repeat Steps 2 and 3 until you have added all the modems you want.

Obviously in the case of an ISDN TA you select the same 'modem' and set them
to dial out on the same number.

NOTES

A. To set up you must have two or more modems installed on your computer,
   one phone line for each modem and an ISP that supports Multilink
   connections.

B. If the first modem connects successfully but the second modem fails to
   connect, multilink is probably not supported by the ISP.

C. Multilink is part of the Dial Up Networking and is not available when
   using other communications programs.

D. Although Multilink is designed for ISDN TA's, it can be used by two or
   more analogue modems of the same or different speeds.  However using
   analogue modems can cause serious overrun errors that impair the
   performance of the multilink connection.

APPARANTLY

I do not know for sure if this is the case but when you are connected
with a Multilink connection if you click on the flashing Telephone in the
toolbar, you can apparantly drop the second connection if you do not need
it and re-dial when you want to use more speed.

Thats it for this file, hope it helps you all out..

Cyber0ptix
cyberoptix@email.com
