
   ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ    ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜ  ÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ     ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ
   ÛÜÜÿÜÜÛ ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ    ÛÿÜÿÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÿÛÜ ÛÜÿÜÛ ÛÿÛ     ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ
     ÛÿÛ   ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÛÜ    ÛÿÛÿÛÿÛ ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÜÛÿÛÜ ÛÿÛÜÜÜÜ ÛÿÜÜÜÛÜ
     ÛÜÛ   ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ    ÛÜÛßÛÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ
           ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ
           ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÿÛßÿÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ
           ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÛÜÜÜÜ ÛÿÜÿßÛÜ ÛÿÜÜÜÛÜ ÛÿÜÿÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÿÛ
           ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÛÛÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÛÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ
           ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜ  ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ   ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ
           ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÿÛ ÛÿÛ ÛÜÿÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÿßÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ   ÛÜÜÿÜÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ
           ÛÿÛÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ ÜÛÿÛÜ ÛÿÛÜßÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÛÜ     ÛÿÛ   ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ
           ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÛß ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ     ÛÜÛ   ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ
    ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜ ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ
    ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÛÜÛÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÛßÿÜÛ ÛÜÿÜÛ ÛÿßÛÛÿÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ
    ÛÿÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÿÜÜÛ ÛÿÜÜÜÛÜ ÛÿÜÜÜÿÛ ÛÿÜÿßÛÜ ÜÛÿÛÜ ÛÿÛÜßÿÛ ÛÿÛÜÜÿÛ
    ÛÜÛ     ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛ ÛÜÛÛÜÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÛ ÛÜÛßÛÜÛ ÛÜÜÜÜÜÛ


Sometimes it is necessary for a hacker to rely on techniques that have been
developed by the close colleagues of ours, known as the phreakers.  Hacking
usually takes place, but is not limited to, electronic communications, such
as the internet, bulletin boards, voice mail, packet radio, and other serv-
ices.  Almost always, where electronic communication is involved, so is the
phone company. Enter the knowledge held by the phreaks.  The original phone
phreaks built elaborate devices such as the blue box, to explore billing proc
edures, switches, and just "how does that voice on the other end get to where
I'm standing?" Anymore, phreaking is more and more about exploiting holes in
the telephone company, either physical or electronic, to gain "something for
nothing", or, stealing service.  Some of these techniques are extremely bord-
erline legal issues, if not completely illegal.  I don't necessarily condone
these actions, but if there is a need, a hacking directive that cannot be
achieved without using such measures, sometimes certain things have to be
done.  Maybe you need to make sure no one can pinpoint you as the hacker.
Maybe you just feel like going outside to hack, who knows.  Everyone has their
reasons. I, myself am not a phreaker, but I learn from them, and can put their
knowledge and power to use for my own purposes as a hacker.  So, here's my
guide to using phreaking to aid in hacking.

There will be quite a bit covered here, I have broken it up into sections:
1) Your Mobile Platform
2) General Equipment
3) Preparing for the event
4) Keeping On your Guard
5) Hacking it Up!
6) UH-OH! We've got company!
7) Making a BeigeCord
8) Complete plans on making and using a GoldBox (Schems included!)
9) Tips for use with the Acoustic Coupler
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your Mobile Platform
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Surely you'll want a laptop with a good sum of battery life, or a palmtop,
anything with a terminal program, and a modem.  Without these, mobile hacking
(at least via electronic means) is not very likely.  If choosing a laptop or
other portable hacking platform, look for something that's light, yet durable.
I personally have two platforms for field hacking: An NEC laptop with a 540Meg
hard drive, 8 megs of ram, and a wonderful terminal emulator called Telemate.
I also have a Hewlett Packard 300LX palmtop with 2 megs of overall storage,
and a built in VT-100 and TTY terminal emulator.  Both of them have their good
and bad sides.  Both of the devices support PCMCIA modems.  I have 2 modems,
an Eiger Labs 28.8 faxmodem, which is powered by the telephone line to reduce
battery drain, and a Megahertz 14.4 faxmodem which is Battery powered, so it
will work with an acoustic coupler for payphone (or other) use, but will
reduce my laptop's run time by 15 minutes or so, and kills my palmtop in a
half-hour flat.

Whereas the palmtop is small, weighs under 3/4 of a pound, and is rugged like
you wouldn't believe (I dropped it in the mud when i was using it at a payfone
once and it didn't so much as complain!), it has no backlight, and the letters
are very small and hard to read in low-light conditions.  Battery life is
limited to about 45 minutes when using a modem, and that's if i use VERY
expensive alkaline batteries.  Cheap batteries won't even last half an hour
with a modem, and NiCd batteries last 5-10 minutes.  Not a great choice, but
for hit-and-runs, it's a winner, at least if u got a good flashlight.  Oh yah,
no logging or file transfer capability with the built-in software, either.
I've seen some software for Windows CE that has A few transfer protocols, but
that's about it, still no logging.  They even expect you to PAY for it.  Yuck.

The laptop is a different story though.  It is full-featured when it comes to
communications.  Compared to the palmtop, it's a battle control center.  With
my current setup, I can emulate anything i would ever want to, 3270, VT-xxx
(a lot of the VT's), and I can even program my own emulation rules in, if i
get very bored.  Logging, no problem.  File transfer, no problem.  Scripting
is beautiful.  The only problem is that the device weighs in at almost 6 lbs
and on top of that, takes up a lot of space.  Having close to 3 hours of
battery life while online is a bonus though, even longer if you remove the
power-leaching modem from the slot.

I *ALWAYS* carry a spare set of batteries, for both my palmtop and the laptop,
even when I'm not hacking.  If you're using some electronic device (like the
REALLY old laptops) that takes normal sized batteries such as AA, C, D, or 9v,
you'd really be wise to get the expensive kind to use while you hack,
especially if you don't know how long you'll be running your equipment.  The
last thing you want is a low battery warning before you have time to cover
your tracks.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General Phreaking Equipment and Misc Stuff
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

(Ones marked with * are optional, maybe overkill, yet still fun)
----------------------------------------------------------------
Backpack to cram the equipment into

Ratchet or Bolt-Driver set (you can get cheap 14 pc sets at computer stores,
        be sure to get 7/16 and 3/8 inch sockets.  They'll be the most useful)

A decent pocket knife (to strip/cut wires, wire ties, etc)

Screwdrivers, various sizes, flat and philips head (for taking out screws,
        and prying)

Pliers, slip notch, and needle-nose (for pulling out stuff, limitless uses)

Small penlight (for reading stuff up-close, etc)

Flashlight (when you need some major light for working)

Notepad and paper (to write stuff down with.  Don't always rely on electronic
        storage when field hacking.  Sometimes jotting is more convenient
        than typing)

BeigeCord (Will tell how to make this later)

Suitable phone to go along with the BeigeCord (Later, as well)

Pair of cheap-ass light cotton or thin leather gloves (Fingerprints.  Period.)

No-DoZ (Available in small packages at convenience stores, just in case you're
        out later than you thought you'd be)

* Battery operated camera flash (See more details later)

* Acoustic coupler (for payphones or anywhere you can find phones but no jack)

* Walkie-Talkies (if you've got more than one person)

* Goldboxes (depending on directives to be achieved, and application

* Fake Telco ID tags (These are often capable of fooling normal people,
        especially at 2am if they've just woken up)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preparing for the event
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Before you decide to go out hacking with your mobile platform, you need to
decide where you're going to hack from.  This may be a telco can out in the
middle of farmer bob's field, or it might be the Fortress fone hanging off
the wall of a 7-Eleven! HEH!  Anyhow, once you've found out where you're going
to be doing this from, you need to scope it out in both broad daylight, and in
darkness as well.  Get familiar with this place, as you will need to be
comfortable with your surroundings.  At night, let some cars drive by if at
all possible.  (If no cars drive by, have a friend cruise up and down the
adjacant roadway or paths).  You need to be able to stay out of their sight,
but still be able to see them coming.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Keeping on your guard
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
You should have a backpack or other carryable bag that will allow you to store
all the stuff in it, in a well-organized and easily accessible manner.  I
usually advise you venture out in small groups.  NEVER have more than 5 people
and NEVER use more than one vehicle when traveling via car/van/truck etc.
At least one person should be watching out for cops, telco people, bystanders
or others.  Use walkie-talkies when there will be more than 20 feet between
the watchmen and the people doing the phreaking/hacking.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hacking it up!
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
As far as hacking, standard procedures need to take place.  You hack just like
you normally would, except maybe you'll get a little chilly.  The only thing
you really want to do is find a phone line to use, and use it for hacking.
The main purpose I've found for this is sheer anonymity.  If they can't trace
a call back to you, you won't be found guilty.  Make sure when ripping telco
cans/boxes apart, you don't leave any fingerprints.  It's sometimes advisable
to wear light leather or thin cloth gloves when partaking in such activities.
As far as opening cans/boxes, that's why you need the sockets.  Most of them
are secured by 3/8 and 7/16 inch bolts.  sometimes you need the screwdrivers
too.  You can kind of figure out what to do once inside.  (More tips in the
beigecord section)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UH-OH!  We've got company!
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
When and if you encounter a person who seems to be unfriendly, you need to
have a plan.  In the case of stupid laymen, I'd say it's wise to try to
convince them that you belong there, either you're analyzing their phone lines
because service was knocked out randomly and you're trying to find which areas
are affected and fix it, or something.  This is where the fake telco ID
tag comes in handy.  Just make sure you're not showing it to an actual telco
guy or someone who would know any better. Bullshitting is good.  If it's a cop
or telco guy, or if you just can't tell if u can fool the person or not, you
need to whip out your already charged camera flash, close your eyes tight,
flash it (blinding them for about 10-45 seconds), and get the hell out!  One
alternative that's a lot cheaper, is buying those cheap-ass flashbars (or
cubes You know, for those cheesy 10-millimeter point-and-shoot cameras) at the
general store or Wal-Mart, and tearing them apart CAREFULLY.  remove all the
bulbs and store them in something soft and non-flammable.  When broken (such
as thrown on the ground), they will go off like they normally would, also
blinding anyone who didn't have their eyes closed).  Some flash bars' bulbs
don't work like this.  So slam one of the bulbs onto the pavement as a test,
before relying on them to be used for this purpose.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Making a BeigeCord
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Around here, phreaks use beigeboxes all the time.  Typicaly they use them to
tap into residential phone lines and call 900 numbers to purchase online time
on BBS's and sometimes for personal amusement.  A beigebox is just a telephone
with alligator clips instead of a modular plug.  I think you know that.  Well,
a BeigeCord, is just what i call a telephone wire with a modular jack on one
end to plug your modem or phone into, and alligators on the other, to tap into
lines with.  This is simple: Buy a telephone cord (between 3 and 6 feet long)
and cut off one of the plugs, and wire up 2 alligator clips to the middle 2
wires.  Hook your mobile platform or phone up to the modular jack, and the
other end up to the line.  Look for red and green pairs of wires, and hook the
alligators onto the screws, or strip the insulation off of a wire and spread
it far apart enough to leave unprotected wire to hook your alligator onto.

Example:

================---------===================
Insulation^^^      ^^^      ^^^Insulation
                BARE WIRE
If you still have some problems, (heck, even if you don't), I would advise you
to read some other phreaking articles.  Once you've done this, your computer
will act just it does at home as far as communications.  It's also nice to
have a phone for voice communication.  a cheap, one-piece phone that accepts
a modular plug is all you need (some one piece fones have a hard-wired cord.
bletch.)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Gold Boxes
=-=-=-=-=-=
Gold box...fun!  The gold box is an electronic device that links two phone
lines together.  When the first line is called, it picks up the line, and
gives you the dial tone for the second line, which you dial another number
from. when the call is traced, it's traced to the second line your goldbox
was on.

You really need to find a telco box that has many lines in it, in order to use
this.  Try to make sure that the "first" line, is not a main line that is used
for any incoming calls. What you're looking for is a telephone line that only
carries outgoing phone calls, like the line used for credit card verification.
Chances are, you will want to make sure your goldbox fits inside the telco box
nicely.  With a goldbox, you can call from home, and not have to be worried
about a trace.  The only drawback is that most gold-boxes I've seen will stay
off-hook for a set amount of time, like 45 minutes.  So if your call lasts 45
minutes it will hang up on you, but if your call lasts less than that, it will
stay off-hook till the 45 minutes are up, and you can't use it till it hangs
up again.

Hooking up a goldbox is a lot like hooking up a beigebox, except that you have
to wire two lines up, instead of one.  This works best for business phone
lines, because most small residential boxes only have 1 line, and even if they
have 2 lines, calling one of them might wake someone up, because even though
the goldbox picks up the line very quickly, the phone still rings for a short
amount of time.  Businesses, there will be less likely that the ringing is
heard, and if it is, it will probably be by a janitor, who will dismiss it
easily.  (I did mention that you only gold-box at NIGHT when people are home
and asleep didn't I???)

This is a better model I found on the internet though.  This one's cool
because it hangs up shortly after you hang up (Actually when the line
voltage drops on line 1...Have you ever gotten hung up on, then waited for
30 seconds, and heard that static noise drop out, hear some clicks, and then
hear the fast busy signal?  The dead part is what resets the goldbox)

Here's the ASCII SCHEM for this beast!

           Photo1^^
           ÚÄÄ(/\/\)ÄÄÄÄ¿
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´  Ú(|<)Ä¿ bÚÁ¿Transistor1
Red Line 1 ÃÄÄÙLED1 ÃÄÄÙ ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
           ³        ³ e   c                   ³ Green Line 2
           ³  LED2  Ã/\/\ÄÄÄ/\/\ÄÄÄ/\/\ÄÄÄ/\/\Ù
           ÀÄÄ(|<)ÄÄÙ10k     10k   1.4k   1.4k
  Photo2->  Ú(/\/\)¿
Trans2-->  ÚÁ¿b    ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÙ ÀÄÂÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
Green    ³ c e ³                                  Red Line 2
Line 2   ³     ³
         À/\/\/Ù
          1.4K

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³         Legend (All parts can be found at radioShack Easily!)  ³
³                                                                ³
³ ÚÁ¿   2N3904 Transistors   Labels: b=Base c=collector e=emitter³
³ Ù À                                                            ³
³ /\/\  Resistor.   Labels: Value in ohms noted under each symbol³
³                                                                ³
³ (|<)  LED.        Note: Try to use high output LED's.          ³
³                                                                ³
À (/\/\) Photocell ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

I usually put this whole chunk of equipment into one of the small or medium
radio shack project cases.  You'll want to make sure that your LED's are
REALLY bright, and you may want to use some tape to make them touch the photo-
cell.  Drill 2 holes in the case, one in either side, and when assembling your
goldbox, run both of the Line1 wires out one hole, and label that hole "Line1"
and the line2 wires through the other hole, labeling it "Line2".  You can not
get the greens or reds confused here.  I usually use green and red wire when
creating my goldbox, so that i won't get confused, I'd advise that you did the
same! Once you have the wires poking out of the holes (make sure there's at
least 5 inches of wire on each so you have something to work with), put some
electrical tape over the inside of the holes.  If any light gets into this
box, the victim's fone lines will go batty.  The only light in this box that
we are wanting is the light being produced by the LEDs!

An optional design i heard mention of one time by a colleague of mine was
using an optocoupler... you may look into that, but i've yet to see plans for
such a device...feel like making 'em?  If you successfully do it and do a nice
write-up on it, make good skems to go along with it, go ahead and send it to
us and we'll probably publish it!

This design will not hang up after a given amount of time.  Instead it hangs
up when YOU hang up.  That's good news for you.  You may want to build 3 or 4
of these little guys if ya got the cash to do so.  Chances are once ma bell is
onto ya (that is traces it to the boxed number), you may never see this thing
again.  Also, if they DO see this box, they might see what phone numbers have
called the other line it was hooked up to at or around the time the traced
calls were made.  that would point to you.  that's not good.  Goldboxes can be
used in conjunction with payphones and an acoustic coupler.  This is a safer
method, because ma bell probably won't physically search the site where the
gold box is for maybe 2 weeks, then they'll see what phones were calling that
number at that time and date, and it's a payphone.  could be ANYONE!

Seriousely, and sadly enough, I must say that you should count each gold box
you install as money spent to achieve a hacking directive.  It's not wise to
go back to the site and retrieve it, unless you have a lot of balls.  I know
of at least one person who went back to get the box, only to find out that
pacific bell employees had found it when activating another line for the
victim establishment, and called in the authorities, who were roughing it in
van across the street.  Luckily, only the trespassing charges held up in court
but not everyone may be that lucky.  Retrieving a goldbox should take as much
(if not more) planning and effort as it took to plant it.  Keep an eye on the
area for a few days, in broad daylight, and at night.  Take note of vehicle
positions, people, everything, especially everything you can see from near the
boxes location.

How do you know what number to call to activate your gold box?  Well, that's
where the phone and beigecord come in.  Hook up the biegecord to the phone
line you are using for line1.  This is the line you will be calling from your
modem or phone.  When you get a dialtone through your handset, dial an ANI.
(All the ANI's I have are now deactivated...growl!  Keep an eye on 2600
magazine, in the letters section, there's almost always some ANI numbers in
there).  The ANI will spout off a 10 digit number (area code and 7 digit phone
number.  Use your pencil and note pad now...WRITE DOWN THAT NUMBER!  Go call
it from another phone somewhere.  You should get a dial tone VERY quickly,
usually it doesn't even get through a full ring for me.  Dial a local number
just to see if it works, a BBS, see if you get a carrier tone, or if your
best friend would be awake at this hour, call and brag...erk... no.  don't
brag.  Bragging is the bane of hacking, to a degree.

When using a payphone to hack, Redboxing is not the way to go.
Most payphones i've ran into let you stay on a local call indefinitely with
the initial change (25, 35 cents).  You might as well pay, then dial the gold
box, which is local, then dial the long distance number from there.  That way
you won't get an operator asking for more money halfway through your hacking.
(computerized voices cause pretty good amounts of line noise!)  If this method
is used, you have unlimited length long distance phone call for 25 or 35 cents
depending on your phone company.  Your victim may not see things the same way!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acoustic Couplers
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
An acoustic coupler is just a device that is strapped to a phone, and then
plugged into your modem.  It basically just makes an audio connection to the
phone line that the phone is on.  This is good for payphones, phones that are
on digital PBX's, or any phone where the wall jack is not accessible, but an
outside line is!  You may be able to find an acoustic coupler in computer
stores in your area (I bought mine at a CompUSA in June, 1997) and sometimes
you can find old ones at garage sales, used computer stores, and other places.
I have seen them in 1-800-batteries catalogs (GREAT Catalog for people with
laptops and cell phones...Call 1-800-batteries (I don't know how they did it,
but just dialing the first 7 numbers of "betteries" doesn't work...gotta dial
tha whole thing), and ask them to be put on the catalog list.  it's free!
The instructions (if any) that come with the coupler are always screwed up.
Here is what i always do when dialing acoustic...

1) Power up my laptop.
2) While it's booting up, I unpack the coupler from my backpack
3) I insert my PCMCIA modem into my laptop
4) I pick up the handset, and strap the acoustic coupler to it.  (make sure
   that both the coupler's on the right direction, speaker to microphone!)
   And plug the RJ-11 Plug into the jack on my modem.
5) I enter my terminal program, and manually use the command ATX0.
   (All this does is makes sure it won't hang up if there is a faint or absent
   dial tone.  When you dial with the phone's keypad, it won't get a dial tone
   and most modems would hang up unless this was done first.)
6) I Manually enter the command to lock my modem to a specific baud rate
   For high quality phones, I keep it at 14.4 (on a coupler compatible 33.6
   modem I managed to get 26.4kbps out of it, but my modem's just 14.4)
   For cheap phones i use 4800
   For payphones i stoop down to 1200
   (To see how to do this, read your modem manual.  IT's ATF<x> for my 14.4
   My 28.8 is hard to force the baud rate on)
7) I Type "ATD" into the terminal program, but DON'T hit enter
8) I press down on the hook for 5 seconds to get a new dial tone
9) I Use the keypad of the phone I'm using to do all my dialing.  If you're
   gonna dial through a Goldbox, dial the redbox number first, wait 10 seconds
   or so, Dial the other number.
10)Before the carrier starts, hit enter on the computer so that it picks up,
   waiting for a carrier.

The connection will be like any other connection.  Once you've disconnected,
take it apart any way you want.  I pretty much take it apart differently each
time.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This concludes the phreaking techniques to manifest hacking.  Codes could have
been covered but that is an area that i know very little about, and haven't
personally tried to use.  Remember, if nothing else, you guys in Jr. and Sr.
high school could use some of this as a science project!  <wink>.  Happy haqn!

