.........,.........,.........,.........,.........,.........,.....67..,......78
HiR 6 Informative Resources
          By:
   Axon & Asmodian X

Useful URL's:

     o FTPSearch (http://ftpsearch.ntnu.no)
         Ftpsearch is a great internet resource to use.  It is extremely
         flexible, and makes no sacrifices when it comes to power.  If you
         have ever used the "advanced mode" of most internet search engines
         (Like Yahoo or Excite), then this page will look fairly mundane.
         for others, it's kind of confusing at first, but it eventually
         makes sense.  Axon showed this gem to Asmodian X one day, and he's
         used some of axon's ideas blended with quite a few of his own, and
         wrote an article that will appear later in this issue.  It's a
         must-read.

     o HTML edition of The New Hackers Dictionary 
       (http://www.earthspace.net/jargon/)
         If any of you have ever read "The New Hackers Dictionary", it is
         a book that is taken up mostly by entries of the "Hacker Jargon
         File", but also contained within its pages is a healthy amount
         of information that would help anyone better understand hackers
         (such as the "Portrait of J. Random Hacker", and some of the
         grammar usage notes).  This is a site containing the ENTIRE book
         in HTML format, and you can jump to any part of it through the
         table of contents.  (Also if you have a favorite word in the
         jargon section, each word has a tag, so you can link to a single
         word, not just the page of words starting with "H").  Very good!

Books worth reading:
     o The Windows 95 Registry: A Survival Guide
         o ISBN:1-55828-494-X
         o Author: John Woram (Also a Senior Contributing Editor For
                   Windows Magazine).
         o Published Sept. '96.
         o Publisher: MIS Press
         o Official Book URL: http://www.mispress.com/Win95Registry.htm
         o Pages: 350
         o Price: Around 25 bucks.
         o Overview:
           This is THE book to read if you are at all interested in the
           mysterious Registry.  The information inside can bring a novice
           up to speed in no time, and give the power-user (that's me) an-
           other fun toy to mess with.  This book brings to light many
           helpful registry issues such as security, user preferences, and
           other handy stuff.  This book was one of 5 books read in order
           to prepare Axon to write the windows 95 article (later in this
           issue).  Not only was it the best of the 5, it was good enough
           for Axon to BUY (instead of hanging out in a bookstore for hours
           on end, reading it and putting it back, like some books).  This
           book is not recommended reading for newbies, though.  Some of
           the stunts they pull require some decent (intimate?) knowledge
           of how windows handles things...                            